'A Beautiful Mind' had a lot going for it. An intriguing story based on an interesting man, a great cast full of talented actors, the involvement of James Horner and Roger Deakins (perhaps one of the best modern cinematographers in the business) and Ron Howard as director (a very competent director with some great films under his belt, directing always with a lot of quality and polish if not always distinction).

Finally seeing it, always wanting to but never quite having the time, 'A Beautiful Mind' was to me a good, often very good, film, if not quite great. Of its four Oscar wins, Connelly and adapted screenplay (on the most part) were worthy wins, though there were better contenders in the Best Picture and Director categories, 'Fellowship of the Ring' for Best Picture and David Lynch for 'Mulholland Drive' for director. Again, from personal opinion, 'A Beautiful Mind's' Oscar nominations were worthier of wins generally, especially Russell Crowe for Best Picture, make-up and the film editing, cinematography also should have been under serious consideration.

There are a few things that stop 'A Beautiful Mind' from being great. Pacing can be messy, feeling rushed in some spots and then dragging in others. Admittedly though there were other places where it was perfect.

Do agree with the portrayal of schizophrenia being problematic, it is a sensitive and courageous subject to address but those with schizophrenia and mental illness in general will find problems with how it's portrayed. It is a complex and often frightening illness, that the film tries to take seriously and sensitively, but it just felt too clean and like it was being careful not to offend but ended up being too careful. Other aspects are heavy-handed.

The espionage subplot was intriguing mostly and gave some powerful conflict, at the same time parts not quite gelling with the rest of the film and feeling a little confused.

However, 'A Beautiful Mind' for want of a better word looks absolutely beautiful. The cinematography with the vibrant colours and seamless fluidity was one of the best of its year, and the period detail remarkably evocative and a joy to look at. James Horner's score has garnered mixed views, mostly leaning on the positive, personally though it added a lot to the emotional power of the film, swelled thrillingly and was beautifully and cleverly orchestrated, didn't think it was melodramatic at all.

'A Beautiful Mind's' adapted screenplay really makes one think while also capturing a wide range of emotions, more than making up for the lack of accuracy. The story is compelling on the most part with a spot on portrayal of mathematics, something that was praised by the maths community at the time including John Nash. It is very moving and uplifting, many scenes dealt with powerfully.

Ron Howard's direction is some of the best he's done. As ever from him it is rich in quality and polish but it also is some of his most distinguished and shows that he can direct with distinction (even if he doesn't always elsewhere.

Can't praise the cast enough, along with the visuals it is the best aspect of the film. It is impossible to find fault with the powerhouse and perhaps career best performance of Russell Crowe, while Jennifer Connelly is touching in a loyal and sympathetically written role (even if not as challenging as a few of her other roles such as in 'Requiem for a Dream'.

Ed Harris is chillingly malevolent, while the rarely less than game Paul Bettany and Adam Goldberg charm and Judd Hirsch and Christopher Plummer also not putting a foot wrong.

In conclusion, admirable and extremely well made, directed and acted with a sizeable range of emotions, if missing the mark of being a "great" film instead of a good and often very good film and not doing enough justice to a great man and his life. The divisiveness is understandable. 7/10 Bethany Cox 