I believe "Every Saga Has A Beginning" was the tag line for this installment of the Star Wars saga. In those five words you expect one of the greatest feats in motion picture history to be displayed before you, the very start of Star Wars? Wow! After 16 since Return of the Jedi, a solid addition to the saga, much like it's original two predecessors, what else would you be expecting? The original trilogy was amazing in every sense of the word, so how did George Lucas, the one who created it all, manage to demolish it's beginning? Well for starters, I think that this movie and it's following two sequels aren't bad, and I don't hate them like most, I just find them to be Marjory disappointing. Firstly The Phantom Menace was over-hyped to the point of absurdity, and add nostalgia from original trilogy fans, watching this mess is understandably painful for them. It is regarded the greatest let down in cinema, and rightfully so. This movie does so much things wrong, not just from the regular missteps movies suffer from, but it's overall feel and failure to emotionally connect with its disappointed audience. Speaking of story wise, if this is the prequel to the original trilogy, why are there so many glaring plot errors? Why didn't Yoda train Obi-Wan, let alone Anakin, who the hell is the Emporer and why is he evil, for everything this movie did wrong, The Force Awakens did right. Utilising actors, making memorable characters, great story line, great acting, action with substance etc... Why is Obi Wan so obedient, he should be adventurous like Luke! The opening crawl sets the audience up for a bleak adventure, which is missing the fun and enjoyment of the originals. Jake Lloyd is terrible as Anakin SKYWALKER, and even though he's a kid, if you're a good director you can make an even better actor, Lucas is too lenient, and is instead too concerned about special effects, which is where the movie shines. But what's a special effect without a story? It's not to say there's some cool moments in this film, not to mention cool additions to the overall universe. When Obi Wan and Qui Gon battle the droids for the first time is genuinely entertaining, Darth Maul is really cool, I don't care that he didn't really have a back-story, the pod race is awesome, the final duel is great though again doesn't compare to the raw and gritty duel in Empire, and that's about it. So many errors were made in this movie, it's hard to keep track, but for whatever reason, I still enjoy the Phantom Menace, and always will... As a kid I didn't know much about the story errors and other problems, and enjoyed it as much as the originals, and that tiny part of me remains. Sure it's got Jar Jar Binks, whose existence in the entirety of the movie is questionable, sure Samuel L. Jackson and Ewan McGregor and Liam Neeson and Natalie Portman are dangerously under-utilized, but it's a clunky movie. George Lucas didn't know what he actually created, and thusly destroyed a piece of it. The movie had too many subplots and is overall incomparable to any of the original trilogy, while some characters may seem cool, they aren't fleshed out enough to care about, while others aren't fleshed out at all (NUTE GUNRAY). George Lucas had sixteen years to create the beginning of Star Wars, and in all that time this is what we got! The only reason I can't hate this movie is because it's Star Wars, and still remains enjoyable, adding cool moments to the saga, thusly I name this review the Phantom Disappointment.... 