"Can you hear the people sing?" Audiences can hear the people sing...but at times, they may not want to. Adapted from Victor Hugo's novel and the musical of the same name, Les Miserables, or Les Mis, sings loud and clear with its star-studded cast, all while exploring themes of righteousness, redemption, love, and forgiveness.

Les Miserables stars Hugh Jackman, supported by Oscar winners Russell Crowe, Anne Hathaway, and Eddie Redmayne. Set in France, this musical drama begins in 1815 and spans nearly twenty years over the course of its two and a half hour run time. Jean Valjean (Hugh Jackman) is released from prison, but is put on parole for the remainder of his life. Because of his criminal record, he struggles to obtain a job, shelter, or good reputation, and decides to make a new start, destroying his parole papers and going into hiding. Eight years later, Valjean has become mayor of a small town and a factory owner, but is shocked to cross paths with his old parole officer, Inspector Javert (Russell Crowe). Seeking to live a godly life, Valjean provides care for his former employee (Anne Hathaway) and her daughter (Amanda Seyfried), all while running from his past.

Les Miserables is a true form musical; nearly the entire film is sung. While this makes for a unique film experience, muffled lines and the complete lack of spoken dialogue can oftentimes cause confusion regarding plot details. The music takes advantage of the leitmotif technique, giving each character a short "theme" that they sing recurringly. Each theme is linked with its character and creates an identifiable musical identity.

The film focuses on character, using their lyrics and leitmotifs to show viewers the thoughts and feelings of each character. The characters were well rounded and developed nicely. Although singing to express emotions is a straightforward way to develop characters, it is incredibly effective at allowing these characters to become relatable. For instance, when a character sings "I love him," audiences immediately know the mood and feelings of that character, and can focus on how that character's actions, expressions, and words relate to that phrase. Jean Valjean, the protagonist, is somewhat of a tragic hero. Although he does not experience a transition from good to evil, he experiences relatable emotions (fear, sadness, love) and tragedies (imprisonment, loss of loved ones, running from the law).

The music is the centerpiece in the film, but it never quite hits the mark. The beautiful accompaniment is often hidden beneath sound effects and vocals, and the singing itself was often breathy and out of tune (although to the actors' credit, the music was sung live during filming, not recorded in a sound studio). The sets and costumes were the true showstoppers, elaborate, well- made, and giving the film a realism that it could have never achieved as a stage musical. ? ?The cinematography contained a few unique angles and shot selections that contributed to the musical nature of the film. Oftentimes, the singers stared either directly or indirectly into the camera, as if they were singing to the audience (not unusual on a stage, but an odd choice for a film adaptation). There were also many wide shots and aerial views of Paris, which would normally be an impossibility in a stage performance.

As a whole, the film's acting, score, and set design were exquisite, but the poor singing scattered throughout proved to be a major distraction.? The film (PG-13) requires a mature audience; it contains some suggestive material, but also explores deep themes beyond the grasp of most young viewers. Despite the scope and effort behind the film, Les Miserables can't quite reach the high note it strains to achieve. 