When I first saw this film back in Novemeber 2003, I expected more of the same from what I saw of the two previous installments...and I would have been very happy. But not completely satisfied. Then I went into this film, I sat through it and had an experience I have never had before (and most likely never will again). I was on the edge of my seat for the full runtime. Emotions I'd felt could not be put into words and when it finally ended I didn't know what to make of it. As I made my way home I could not stop thinking about what I had just witnessed. What was the purpose of this film? All sorts of ideas filled my head and I came to one final realization; The purpose was purpose itself. It exists to embody every thought and emotion we feel as we make our way through life. All our philosophical ponderings and revelations crammed into one brilliant trilogy. Obviously portrayed through extremes for entertainment value. But none the less concluded in supreme fashion. This is a modern classic. An achievement for the ages and a grossly under-rated flick. Best viewed with it's prequels in one sitting, the matrix trilogy is the most spectacular film saga I've ever come across. Depriving yourself of it would be a true loss.

Even if you somehow miss the multiple messages and themes explored in this gem then you must take note of it's amazing special FX (which only help to emphasize the story and enhance the experience) and breathtaking visuals/direction. The acting is solid, and in some parts excellent. Hugo Weaving and Keanu Reeves both give great performances in this one. Morpheus is somewhat toned down compared to his previous performances (most notably in the first film). However with the misuse of Morpheus aside, the film is perfection in my eyes. What critics and people need to realize is that this film is not typical Hollywood film-making, it's something so much more. And it can only be appreciated if it is viewed through the eyes of someone who is willing to be more open, accept a wide array of themes and focus on the bigger picture, not minor flaws, which often blur your perception of the film. Take it for what it is, a great achievement in it's own right and definitely a landmark in film history. Highly recommended. 