As much as I like movies that are connected to the great Greek mythology, this is certainly not one of them. I can't compare it to the original version, because as of today I haven't seen it yet. But I definitely can say that Clash of the Titans (3D) is a barbaric carnage on the group of films that are set in the times of gods, heroic warriors, and ancient empires.

The storyline is childish, but what more can you expect from a typical popcorn flick brought to life in order to please the masses, right? Right.

The demigod Perseus, son of Zeus, has to stop Hades from releasing the Kraken, which will destroy the town of Argos. He gathers a team of brave, strong and handsome soldiers, who will accompany him on his nearly impossible mission. At first, there seem to be no chances of stopping the beast. However, as the time passes the team realizes that there is one way to defeat the monster, but it requires a trip into the deepest parts of the underworld, namely the palace of Medusa, and cutting her head off. As expected, at the end of the journey only a few men survive; just to make the tale look more dramatic. I think I don't have to mention how the whole story ends, as it clearly speaks for itself.

Actually, from the whole movie the only scene that I was really able to call enjoyable, was the one, where Perseus's entourage had to fight with the nasty Medusa, and one by one got turned into stones. Simple, yet somehow very entertaining while one watches it in 3D.

Oh yes, as for the special effects. The CGI crew did a pretty decent job of creating all the monsters and beasts for this feature. They aren't too simple and as of first sight, they don't look too computer-ish.

The battle sequences would have been boring if it wasn't for the third dimension's visual experience. They look very spectacular sometimes. This is one of a few positive aspects of the movie, for sure.

Sam Worthington as a demigod? Who knew? He actually has the ability to make his character credible, with all the fantastic combat skills and mighty words that he speaks. But Ralph Fiennes was seriously better off playing Voldemort.

As of now, you aren't probably able to see the movie in the cinemas anymore. So the 3D opportunity is gone. If you have a TV compatible with 3D glasses, and are in the mood for some brainless action movie, than I say go watch it, just for fun. Otherwise, I say don't, it isn't worth your time. 