Stole in the Oscars and Snubbed by some critics. Ah! What they are thinking? This film is almost flawless, best of 2012 as far as i am concerned. The cinematography was OK, but the art direction really was top notch. The acting, in a cast overall, the best in a long while. The plot maybe hard for some to follow, since that it's all singed, as an opera. But it's terrific anyways.

I was inclined to say that this film is entirely perfect after my first watching, but now i realize that it's not. But yes, the first one hour is perfect. Period. Denying that will be denying the truth. It's the best first hour ever in a film. You can search flaws on it, but you won't simply find. All the story development was fantastic, and the singing just added a poetry indeed to make it perfect.

The second hour is very good, but not perfect. It had far many performances that just didn't worked for me. Still, they were all really well-made 'numbers'?. Anyways, what really drew my attention in that half was the revolutionizers and their fight to free the France, what brings a direct conflict with the government and the police force, which leads the revolutionizers to their *Spoiler* tragic end. This made me dislike totally the french people, since that they were cowards and choose to do nothing and being enslaved than to help a good cause. Bastards.

Still in that second hour, i liked a lot the cinematography on the war sequences, it just brought an epic feeling to it, which of course, i found awesome! The score is also truly awesome, it looked like it fits much more the war sequences than the normal ones, though. And in fact, it was used much more in 'normal' situations.

And now, a big paragraph to talk only about the cast:

I just find unbelievable how Hugh Jackman didn't won the Oscars in that year. He absolutely was the best actor, and Daniel Day Lewis wasn't all that jazz in Lincoln. Jackman not only brings life,sorriness and the tiredness required for the role of Jean Valjean, but also does it superbly. Few times i've seen an actor so dedicated to a role. I also liked a lot Eddie Redmaine in this film, i've never seen him before anywhere, but he definitely convinced me in this role of Marius. And i became absolutely speechless about Anne Hathaway; she was just phenomenal in the film, one of the best performances by a woman in a musical since Bj?rk in Dancer in the Dark, though Hathaway definitely did a better job. To be honest, it's one of the greatest performances ever. No jokes. I really doubt Hathaway would ever repeat half of the effort she put on Les Miserables. Of course, Amanda Seyfried was very annoying, one of the most cringing voices in the film, if not the most. But she acted well. All the cast did, including the Tarnadiers infamous hustle couple, being Madame Thernadier interpreted by Helena Bonham Carter and the always hilarious Sacha Baron Cohen interpreting the dirty monsieur Thernadier. Both were always hilarious when they appeared in the film, despite them being despicable and hated persons in the Victor Hugo's book. And their versions are much better made in the film, i say ya!

If you haven't watched this film just yet... you are losing one of the best films made in the past 30 years! 9.8/10 