James Cameron is a force of nature. Except for George Lucas, and to some extent, Steven Spielberg, James Cameron is, in my mind, the only blockbuster director in the world who brings to his movies an all-encompassing, ambient spirit that is completely his own. A James Cameron movie is simply a bigger deal than everything else. Avatar ups the ante. Every Cameron trope is out in full force: Bad-ass chicks, space marines, over-the-top action, and a sweeping love story. Avatar is in many ways an amalgamation of everything that makes James Cameron a unique voice in Hollywood. Elements of Terminator, Aliens, The Abyss, True Lies, and Titanic are distilled here into a singular vision. Avatar is a truly remarkable accomplishment, the ultimate James Cameron movie.

Avatar's ambitious story has Jake Sully (Sam Worthington) traveling to the rainforest planet of Pandora to replace his late brother in the Avatar program, which allows certain humans to inhabit a body that resembles that of Pandora's native humanoids, the Na'vi. The leader of the Avatar program is Grace Augustine (Sigourney Weaver), who hopes to use avatars to peacefully interact with the natives. Meanwhile, others, including the CEO, Parker Selfridge (Giovanni Ribisi) and the military leader, Miles Quaritch (Stephen Lang) are looking to exploit the Na'vi and expedite the mining of Pandora for a precious resource called unobtanium. Jake Sully is caught between these two worlds when he meets Neytiri (Zoe Saldana), a blue-skinned Pocahontas who introduces him to her culture.

Jake's inner conflict drives Avatar's story, and it works beautifully... for the most part. Yes, it is a lot like Dances with Wolves in construction. Learning from and becoming part of a new culture is nothing new, but Avatar presents this classic tale in a fresh way. Sully is a paraplegic. His avatar allows him to be free and fully able. It makes sense for him to view the Na'vi life as an opportunity to start anew. His relationship with Neytiri, however, is not as successful. The love story has potential. Sully's wide-eyed desire to learn and Neytiri's spirituality could gel, but those traits aren't fully explored. Compare this love story to Cameron's other movie romance, Titanic. There, we could see clearly what both characters thought of the other, and why they needed each other. The love story made sense because of who the characters were. In Avatar, the love story seems to exist as a plot device; to force Sully into changing allegiances.

Another thing keeping the love story down is Neytiri. James Cameron has never been known for subtle characters, and Avatar doesn't change that. Dr. Augustine is a tough-talking scientist with a penchant for cigarettes, Colonel Quaritch is a hard-as-steel military grunt with a giant scar across his face, the CEO practices golf in his office, etc. The point is, these are caricatures. Neytiri is no different, but somehow she comes off as irritating where the others are appealing. Neytiri is a tree-hugging hippie, spewing jumbled "bio-spiritual" philosophies at every turn. That's fine, but her spirituality eventually devolves into a lecture on the evils of military conquest and deforestation. It's a little heavy handed. Additionally, I can't get past Zoe Saldana's performance. She plays Neytiri as shrill, pretentious, and bad-tempered rather than bad-ass. She is annoying. The problem is, If I don't find her personality attractive, how can I relate to Sully as he falls in love with her?

The love story doesn't work and the Neytiri character is off-putting, but my problems with Avatar end there. This is a major filmmaking achievement. James Cameron creates, in Pandora, the most rich, realistic, and fully realized fictional world in the history of cinema. From a design standpoint alone, the imagination ingrained in the animals, plants, and vehicles is absolutely staggering. Pandora is miles ahead of everything else in terms of diversity of life, and what's really astounding is that with all these varied alien elements, Cameron somehow makes this place feel real. From the high-tech, lived-in military bases to the elaborate Na'vi culture, with its palpable sense of history, Cameron's attention to detail in Avatar is revolutionary.

So too are his technical innovations. The extensive motion capture and CGI used to create Avatar are as convincing as any special effects I have ever seen. The Na'vi characters don't give off the slightest hint of CGI sheen. Avatar stands as the very best example of "performance" capture. The actors are there. The CG middle man seems nonexistent. The Na'vis, the creatures, the mountain-sized trees, and the bio-luminous plants are nothing short of photo-realistic. All the superlatives in the world can't completely do justice to Weta and the team that brought Cameron's gargantuan vision to reality. Avatar is the gold standard in special effects, period.

Avatar's success might be attributed to how Cameron balances the film's many tones. Avatar works as both a science fiction adventure, with some of the most thrilling action scenes ever put to film (The final battle alone is more exciting than 99% of blockbusters before or since), and as a classic Hollywood epic. Every type of moviegoer can connect to Avatar in some way, whether it's in the action, the effects, or even the romance. Technically, Avatar represents the height of what big-budget blockbuster filmmaking can be. There is not another movie quite like Avatar. The film overpowers you with its sheer size. Avatar is a massive production; An event imagined and shot on a scale bigger and bolder than anything I've seen. Like Titanic, it exudes its own unique spirit. Helped by James Horner's beautiful score and Mauro Fiore's epic cinematography, Avatar totally envelopes us in an exotic world. As an original masterwork of popular entertainment, Avatar deserves its spot as the biggest hit in movie history. James Cameron's magnum opus is bad-ass and yet, beautiful -- a truly special experience.

94/100 