The Expendables (2010) is old school American Action film and one of my favorite action movies beside with The Expendables 2! This is the best one of the three for me and my favorite movie from Stallone! I love it very much. I wish Mickey Rourke would come back into it sequels. I really enjoyed. All action stars that we grew up from the 80's and 90's came back in to old school that's what I love the most on here and it is awesome action adventure thriller. I love Stallone, Li and Statham also I love Mickey Rourke.

OK, if you are going to see this for the story thinking something Oscar caliber for storytelling and writing, then you're seeing the wrong movie. If you want some incredible action by the best in the business and plenty of action hero fan service with a heaping helping of explicit violence, then The Expendables is for you. What can I say about this action packed film with all my favorite old school action stars? I love Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Jet Li, Dolph Lundgren, Eric Roberts, Steve Austin,Gary Daniels, Terry Crews and specially Mickey Rourke for his best performance on the screen I have seen. I love the action, the action sequences and the plot in this film. For underrated movie is one of the best action film from old school! In my humble opinion Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Jet Li, Randy Couture and Terry Crews did a terrific job playing the good guys a team of mercenaries on their deadliest mission ever!

I love this film and everything that stands for! I am happy that Stallone get all action stars back together. Also Arnold Schwarzenegger and Bruce Willis had a cameo scene in the film, Schwarzenegger only filmed like 5.mins. than he was unavailable because of his governor schedule. This film is joy able, it is fun, it has great action and the special effects are wonderful. Thank you Sly for making this movie, every action fan appreciates what you did for us. This movie is a treat for any action fan. It is something we have never seen before in the movies.. putting a cast together that consist of Stallone, Statham, Li, Lundgren, Willis, Schwarzenegger, Rourke, Roberts, Crews, Couture, Austin and making it work! This movie really is perfect for what it is, if you're expecting Oscar performances and top notch acting then don't bother seeing this, this movie is not for you.. but if you want pure action at its best with some eye dropping scenes especially the ending WOW then this movie will be up there on your list as it is mine. The Plot does work in this movie and there is emotion in this, the acting isn't bad because it is what it is, and it delivers. Sly really does a great job directing and writing movies, he proved himself in Rocky and did the same for Expendables.. there will be a sequel to this greatness and I will be first in line as you should be as well to see it!! do yourself a favor and see this if you haven't already!

I love the music score for the film, I love Mickey Rourke even tough he didn't had to do much, he was still nice to seeing him. I loved Stallone's tattoos they were awesome! I love the music score "The Boys Are Back in Town" by Thin Lizzy I love this song so much! The Music by Brian Tyler was awesome! I am giving this film a 10/10 because it deserves it and I love this film to death! It is my favorite action film alongside with The Expendables 2 (2012) that come 2.years later out! This film has it all, an awesome cast of stars, a good story, and great action! I enjoyed this film very much, and it did feel like a throwback style movie from the 80's.

The plot of this story is action packed -- Sylvester Stallone stars as Barney Ross, leader of The Expendables, a tight knit team of skilled combat vets turned mercenaries. Hired by a powerful covert operator, the team jets off to a small South American country to overthrow a ruthless dictator. Once there, they find themselves caught in a deadly web of deceit and betrayal. Using every weapon at their disposal, they set out to save the innocent and punish the guilty in this blistering action-packed thriller.

The Expendables is a 2010 American ensemble action film written by David Callaham and Sylvester Stallone, and directed by Stallone, who also starred in the lead role. The film co-stars Jason Statham, Jet Li, Dolph Lundgren, Randy Couture, Terry Crews, Steve Austin and Mickey Rourke.

10/10 Score: Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio: Lionsgate, Millennium Films Starring: Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Jet Li Dolph Lundgren, Randy Couture, Steve Austin Terry Crews, Mickey Rourke, Bruce Willis Director Sylvester Stallone Producers: Avi Lerner, Kevin King Templeton, John Thompson Screenplay: David Callaham, Sylvester Stallone Story: David Callaham Rated: R Running Time: 1 Hr. 43 Mins. Budget: $80.000.000 Box Office: $274,470,394 