When thinking of my least favourite genres Horror and Musicals come to mind, so as you can imagine I wasn't exactly ecstatic to see this film but I ended up very impressed with one of the better musicals I've seen in my life. I think for the most part this film was very impressive, it's not without its flaws but found this film to be very much worth the watch. When Tom Hooper won the Oscar for The Kings Speech the only thing that really bothered me about that was the fact that it didn't really put his talents on full display but their front and centre here, all the musical numbers and character direction is perfect, it really did make you believe the dire situation that these characters lived in and it truly proved to me his talent as a director. Hugh Jackman was absolutely brilliant in this film, not only is his singing voice fantastic but he carried a real burden and shame with him that Jackman perfectly portrayed. Few performances limited performances have impressed as much as Anne Hathaway in this film, her absolute emotional destruction was perfectly conveyed through her performance and created for some truly emotionally tragic scenes. When I hear bad things about Russell Crowes performance all I can do is scratch my head, I thought he was amazing in this film, he was a true antagonist who was not all the different from Valjean and I though Crowe brought true complexity to the character. This film also looks stunning, all the French streets, dirty alleys and poverty ridden areas truly gave out an impression that truly hooked me. But I don't think this film base some issues for one, after the first 20 minutes the film failed to really grip or interest me, it slowed the film down completely and seemed to spend to much time devoted to setting up the final act rather than give a compelling narrative of its own. The run time is also a bit excessive and the pacing drags quite a lot for me. Also seeing as it is a film called, The Miserable it's got a lot of really sad scenes that while obviously need to be there just don't make me want to go back and watch it again.

Everything from a technical and performance standpoint in this film is incredible, it's one of the best looking films in recent memory, while there's not a whole lot to drag me back to watch this again it's definitely a film worth watching that truly leaves an impression.

81%/A- 