This movie is one heck of a experience that really knows how to hit the key notes. Sure, it has a simple narrative that is easy to follow but it's more driven by the vision and the experience for the audiences over the narrative. Now this movie has gotten some backlash, mainly because of it's depiction of the historical figures. So yeah, although the story might not entirely be focused on telling the exact truth, it does a fine job of blending fiction with reality. Because it does have important scenes that are deemed to be historically accurate or assumed to be. Never the less, the main focal point of this movie isn't to tell the step by step of Mozart's life. But to make it a experience that would draw the audiences in with it's depth and soul. Even the directing style comes of slightly strange when it comes down to it. So the story is told from the perspective of Antonio Salieri who was one of the well known composer during his prime as a composer. But in this film he is depicted as a mediocre composer trying to be more than what he is. Salieri in this comes across as a overly self-righteous, pompous jerk that has a huge jealousy towards the musical prodigy Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Since Mozart in this film is portrayed as a party guy that loves the ladies and just like enjoying the moment with his lavish spendings. Which kind of makes him a rock star during his time period. And since the demeanor of Antonio Salieri is vastly different from Mozart, Salieri not only makes Mozart his rival but his sworn enemy. Sometimes people like to pick apart and only try to focus on the negative side of someone they are jealous towards and that really shows through Salieri in this. He is a character that will do whatever it takes to bring Mozart down by slowly diminishing Mozart's chances to show his musical talents to the world to see. In this, while Mozart is a musical prodigy Salieri is a mediocre composer that is gifted in scheming, manipulating and has a very cunning persona. It shows the colliding of personalities and the ill intentions of Salieri as he picks apart Mozart. I also found Mozart's focus when it comes to his music and how he enjoyed life and his family to be touching and yet interesting. May it be entirely true or not, the man was a musical genius and his music will continue to carry on for generations. Overall though, this is a intriguing movie that I thoroughly enjoyed despite it being 3 hours. It's quite a depressing film though, so I probably wouldn't pick it up immediately to watch it again. But I will say, it is a splendid film and a experience.

9/10 