Spoilers Ahead:

First, to the flaws: yes the insane giggle, trust me in the afterlife Mozart is going to be looking for both Hulce and the screenplay writer. It is both annoying and grossly disrespectful, please, yes, there are some people who say he was a bit of a libertine but don't have him laughing like a child molester! Second, the movie is an hour too long, the new extended addition compounds the difficulty; it really begins to drag near the ending. For those of you avoiding the movie, don't, the operas are shown only in brief snippets, you won't have to sit through extended periods of fat people screeching. I am with you, I adore classical music, most of it, but detest opera. The main reason to watch is Mozart's beautiful music which fills the entire movie. Even in scenes you may not care for, you get to hear some of his most beautiful music. The movie was criticized for its focusing upon Salieri's mortal hatred of Mozart but even more upon the unhistorically supported claim that he murdered him. As a movie reviewer, I am just focusing on the entertainment value of the movie. Abraham gives his signature performance that made him a star. Ironically, though it be Amadeus, Abrahams's Salieri dominates the narrative. The movie delineates him as spiritualizing his mediocrity as some kind of slight by God.

When he witnesses Mozart's brilliance, paired with his moral debauchery, it sends him over the ledge. Mozart doesn't help things by mocking him in public, as my header alludes to. In a costume ball, someone yells out that challenge to Mozart, who mockingly plays the piano like a cross-eyed retard, culminating in his lifting his cape and loudly breaking wind at the conclusion of a stilted, dumb ass piece of Salieri's music. This is the heart of the movie, the growing enmity of the court favored Salieri, who gets increasingly involved in destroying Mozart. He cuts off his pupils, slanders him to the Emperor, and then, the most doubtful, plans his murder by working him to death dressed in the costume of his dead father: Leopold. This is not an idealized delineation, Hulce plays Mozart as a giant, narcissistic, arrogant child full of contempt for others. His childhood is briefly shown before we meet him testing the archbishop's patience by being late to his own public recital. The next scene, where he opens the doors to his cheering fans, while showing the archbishop his backside, is the quintessence of his personality. The movie follows his gradual decline caused by his extravagance and naivete about court politics.

Though Salieri is musically painfully inferior to Amadeus, the latter is commensurately out of his element in the political world where Salieri is beloved by the musically retarded Emperor Joesph the Second. Yes, it is long, the veracity of the ending dubious and Hulce's delineation can seem like almost a parody at times, despite all these flaws, like Immortal Beloved, this is the best Mozart movie we have. Until somebody makes a better one, I recommend it to you. Filled with his music, plenty of humor, usually at Salieri's expense, it was worthy of its Oscar. Abraham dominates the movie with his smoldering envy and burgeoning hatred for,"My heart was filling up with such hatred for that little man." My favorite scene is at the end, confined to the nut house for claiming he killed Mozart, he pardons all those around him. "I am the patron saint of mediocrity, I absolve you my child, I absolve you." The movie is told in flashbacks from a room where the local priest has come to test him about his claim of killing Amadeus.

His hatred reaches such depths that he commissions Mozart to write a Requiem that he plans on stealing posthumously and playing at his funeral, as he laughs at him. The priest looks on horrified,"A wonderful mass of Death, played for Mozart by his dear friend Salieri and God forced to listen. Powerless to stop it, me laughing at Him." For all its myriad flaws, my friends, it at least did not attempt to distill a musical legend to his pants and who they were blazing for like Immortal Beloved. It is closer to a true biography; I gave Immortal an eight, mainly for Oldham's excellent performance. Still A Good Movie. Q.E.D.

"Now And Then, Too Many Notes, Just Take A Few Out And It Will Be Brilliant." Emperor Joesph ll 