I just rewatched Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace today as a 24 year old, after first seeing it as about a 10 year old. I genuinely enjoyed watching it and especially loved seeing the beginnings of the Star Wars franchise's plot unfold. I'm not ashamed to say I cried at one part, the progression of the story of Anakin growing up as a slave, being recognized as an almost force of nature so strongly connected to the force, being encouraged to leave his planet and mother to be trained, and ultimately starting his path of pain and sorrow. I think Qui-Gon did not foresee Anakin having such a difficult life and wanted to believe he would bring balance rather than pain to the galaxy. However, Anakin's life never really having stability and his desires to be having never being met hit me hard, I'm not joking. The Star Wars franchise can indeed be entitled "The Tragedy of Anakin Skywalker," and this movie The Phantom Menace sets the plot up so well that Anakin had to go through so much struggle to bring balance and it was difficult to digest imagining that he was *destined* to suffer almost, willed by the Force to destroy the Sith even by helping destroy the Jedi Order and what would inhibit the Jedi from ever defeating the Sith. Watching the movie unfold and observing how Darth Sidious tried to manipulate, successfully, nearly all the events that took place was incredible. I give major points to George Lucas and his, I assume, team of writers, I believe they did a great job in crafting the story. As for Anakin's acting, I'm surprised to say I thought it was good for his place. He is a ~10 year old child and I think for a child actor, he did an extremely good job. I liked the scenes most of all between Anakin and Qui-Gon, he seriously listened and learned from Qui-Gon which most children may not do. I give the film an 8/10, it deserves it, definitely for that last fight scene...probably the best fight scene in all of Star Wars, for myself anyways. Obi-Wan having that energy in his lightsaber duel with Darth Maul after Qui-Gon was nearly dead was amazing, GREAT choreography! Sick~ Long story short: this was a good movie ^^ 