One thing we're all hearing on the news right now, is how a new Star Wars film is coming out. There is a lot of hype and excitement. I was wondering if there'd be anymore Star Wars after Episode 3. I even remember talking with friends back in 1999 about Lucas planning episodes 7-9. Right now, it's only to 7. When Episode 1 came out we were anticipating sequels every 3-years. So, after a 10-year hiatus another Star Wars movie is coming out, which has brought lots of excitement especially to the Star Wars fans. More excitement than when episodes 2 and 3 came out as those were anticipated movies only 3-years apart.

Seeing all this excitement reminds me of when Star Wars Episode 1 was coming out. I'm old enough to remember back then. I seriously can't believe how long ago that time was. Back then in 1999, YouTube wasn't a website and it was harder to stream videos on the internet. There also wasn't really social media, not like today. Back then as you can see on the IMDb trivia, and I even remember my friend telling me this at the time when he was only 10. There were a lot of people who would pay a full-price for a movie just to see the Star Wars movie trailer, and they wouldn't even stay for the movie. They'd just leave after the trailer for Episode 1 was shown. It was exciting back then to think after a 16-year hiatus and starting with the later episodes, they'd start from episode 1, the beginning of the story.

I'll tell you now, if you watch the Star Wars films in chronological order, I'm sure you'll notice they don't seem canon. Episode 1-3 we'll see canon as their trilogy along with episodes 4-6. But, the trilogies will barely seem to go together. This new film also looks more canon to episodes 4-6 considering we see Harrison Ford in it, and it looks like the Star Wars action we're familiar with. The earlier episodes of Star Wars seem newer than episodes 4-6 with higher quality special effects and where the actors in the earlier films seem like they're from the '70s-'80s as opposed to today. Also, how there are vague references to the earlier story from the later episodes, as I believe Lucas was still coming up with it.

In other words of watching the series in chronological order, it's not like Dragon Ball Z as fans of the show know that they started with DragonBall Z in the U.S. and people are probably less familiar with DragonBall. But, DragonBall was the earlier and original series and if you watch the earlier episodes of DragonBall, it will seem more canon to DragonBall Z than the earlier episodes of Star Wars will seem canon to the Star Wars series. Now that I'm talking about DragonBall Z, I'll mention that I think D.B.Z. is a better story than Star Wars.

But, what makes this 1st episode great. So, yeah there was lots of excitement for episode 1 but a lot of people are giving this movie bad reviews including here on IMDb. I have to give it a positive review, here's why? It seems like a lot of the negative reviews were because of people who disliked Jar Jar Binks, or didn't like Anakin Skywalker as a kid, and how the actor who played him has long since quit acting. Some of us think there should have been a different child actor for his part. You could look at the auditions. Even during this episode, we knew who Anakin would become as it wasn't meant to be a surprise. It seems like the actor who played Qui Gon Jin didn't like playing his part either.

But, what I like about this first Star Wars film is out of all of them it seems like the most innocent. I guess it's pretty innocent showing a child as a main character and a hero for the series. That being said, this movie would definitely work for younger kids, probably more than the other films as it can almost seem like the plot was written by a kid. But, not like it was poorly written. Though, some people disagree with the writing of the movie.

As my title says, I also feel like this film is the fastest paced one in the series. It's been awhile since I've seen a Star Wars movie and the later ones. Star Wars is a good story with good action, but I feel like a lot of them have so many Go Pee moments. Long movies that have a lot of slow scenes, and episode 3 can be a little depressing. This first movie seems like the happiest in the series.

Another fun memorable scene from this movie which would also make me consider it the best one is the Pod Racing scene. The other Star Wars movies seem to focus on the story and action. The Pod Racing scene was just a really well done fun scene making us see Anakin's young abilities. I thought I heard there was a video game called Pod Racing made a long time, but I haven't heard about it in such a long time.

I also feel like this Star Wars movie would be the easiest to understand. So, while I'm not a big fan of Star Wars, I have to rank this one as the best. I know this displeases some of you who dislike this movie. But, I think it was well done and is the most fun. I give it a 9/10. 