This movie looks and sounds like the Wachowski Brothers abandoned it. It degenerates from their previous successes, like they were running out of ideas and decided to fall back to previous scenes and dialogue.

The nowhere more apparent than in the script. I wanted to tally how many times the captain of the Hammer said "He's out of his goddamn mind". Or "Perhaps it is best that it is not up to you". The Wachowski Brothers really dropped the ball when writing this movie. They recycled so much dialogue from Reloaded becomes almost painful to hear. The cast itself seemed like they just stopped giving a damn. I groaned by the time Trinity's second monologue of the film rolled around.

I have an opinion that it would have been better if Trinity had died in Reloaded. It would've been something to drive Neo towards victory, and given Morpheus something better to do than be ordered around by Niobe. The siege of Zion, while good independent of the series, was a mistake. Matrix-fans demand Matrix stuff, and most of the movie wasn't in the Matrix. The stuff that was in the Matrix, was disappointing. The gun-check room was a complete rip off of the lobby scene from the first movie. I was really looking forward to Neo and Smith's final battle. I anticipated the fight scene in Matrix history. What I got was Dragonball Z, the movie. It wasn't a true fight. It was two inhumanly tough guys kicking and punching each other to no apparent end. And the way they killed Neo, was a complete let down. You've given us a great character, at least give him a dignified death.

The only redeeming quality of this movie were the special effects, which were near flawless. But really, this movie should have been thirty minutes shorter and a lot cooler. I think they should tied Neo's confrontation to the battle for Zion. Instead we can an ending of some more philosophical babble and a stupid kid saying the war is over. That irritated me to no end.

One thing that must be noted, this is a Matrix movie. Or was. Instead they turned it into a bad hash of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, the Bible, and DBZ. People don't come to the movies to think, they come to be entertained, to relax, to blow off some steam and eat some bloody popcorn. I don't the spend the week studying, go to see an action movie on the weekend, and expect to new age Zen crap shoved down my throat.

Wachowski Brothers, if you make any movies in the future, remember three things: 1) Don't loose sight of your core audience, 2)Don't turn an hour and a half action movie into a two and a half hour pseudo-philosophical action movie, 3)Hire new writers.

5/10 