No part of this 130 minute movie was either boring or confusing. The whole thing held a load of meaning and the story was rich. The action was spectacular, and editing was where it should be. The amount of screen time for the characters was appropriate, the acting was okay, Hugo Weaving was excellent. Fight choreography was top notch, special effects are best you can get at the moment, music score goes down as a favorite.

This is a movie to see, it is part three of three of a popular mainstream movie series ending satisfactorily with this installment, Matrix: Revolutions. In saying that, I would like to comment on the bad feedback. All those who said it lacked story, well remember, it is part three. Consider all three movies, three acts of one story. No, don't consider, know that to be the case! This remember is half of a 4 1/2 hour movie, so put Reloaded and revolutions together, you get one story narrative, add Matrix to the front of that, you get over six hours of action, story and drama, all ending in a big action packed final.

To the home made critics and pro's, it ended how it ended and could not have ended any other way! People were expecting everything to come together at the end, from Persiphone to the train man to the twins, who by the way are dead! No, that is not the driving force of these trilogies, but it is too end the war against the machines! We find out that Smith is Neos negative, created by the matrix to balance the equation of the programming. We find out why neo stopped those Sentinals mid air, he had touched the source when he was with the Architect and is now connected with the machine systems! What more do you want. The merovingian is a powerful program in the system, he is merely trying to destroy the oracle, (reason unknown and not necissary)and just wants to create trouble.

The war ends with Neo making peace and cleansing the matrix of Smith, letting him infect Neo, who now is connected directly with the machine city, and is able to delete smith. Neo had to sacrifice himself for everything.

In the end it was satisfying, it is fun and exciting, thought-provoking and emotional, just like the original. In fact the first matrix is exactly like this movie, it is just not fresh anymore which affects our expectations. This movie is as deep, so deep many don't understand and misinterpret the fact, this move is like life. When in life is all our problems or mysteries solved? We don't have to like everything in life, but the main thing is, we must try to enjoy it! 