The movie tells the story of jean Valjean, a convict who breaks parole to start anew after an act of kindness towards him changes how he wants to live his life. It is set in post-revolutionary France-something that most viewers don't realise, and it has a vast array of big stars cast as the various characters.

Hugh Jackman is extraordinary in this film, he really shows his musical talent and extent of his acting. Ann Hathaway was also great even though she does not have that large of a part. Russel Crowe's singing is not as bad as you have probably heard (well in my opinion). I did find Sacha Baron Cohen's and Helena Bonham Carter's characters very annoying in most of their scenes as they are playing the comedic relief characters, which i thought were very out of place in this movie.

The major problem i have with this movie is the extremely long run time of 2 hours 40 mins. I was convinced that Peter Jackson had something to do with the movie. Some of the scenes are very drawn out and it really starts to drag after the first half of the movie is over. Certain things could have been cut out of the movie to fix this problem, such as removing the comedic relief scenes, or by removing/shorting some of the less needed music numbers. The first act of the movie is by far my favourite part of the movie, sadly the quality was not carried throughout, with some stories not being as entertaining as others.

The sets and special effects are very impressive and the fact that the actors sang on set and did not prerecord their lines made what i feel was a better movie. it allowed the actors to show a lot of emotion in their scenes.

This is a musical, and by that i mean that practically every word is sang. i'm not a big fan of musicals, but it wasn't really the singing that i had a problem with, it was just that some of it was not really needed to progress the story, so it was just lengthening an already very long movie. Some of the musical numbers are fantastic however, and they will give you goosebumps, it is just a pity that their greatness is diluted by the weaker numbers. 