Movie Review of Les Miserables

Les Miserables is a drama-filled and emotion packed film that has received a lot of respect since it was released on the 25th of December, 2012 (Hooper 2012). Originally being a musical on Broadway, Tom Hooper, the director, brought it to the big screen. Hooper followed the story line from the Broadway musical pretty tightly and even kept the live musical style to it. Out of the huge number of actors needed to make this film possible, the main and most well known actors were Hugh Jackman, Anne Hathaway, and Russell Crowe who played the three main characters of Jean Valjean, Fantine, and Javert ("Les Miserables"). The actors, the live singing, and the set design had a large impact on the success of this film, but what I believe won Les Miserables its 51 awards was its easily relating to story plot featuring a hurting economy, a country in the middle of war, and the struggle of a prisoner trying to get back on his feet.

The setting for this movie was France in the mid-1800s. The majority of the people in France like in the movie were facing rough economic hardships. There was a lot of poverty and crimes committed because of the economic situation. In the movie, Anne Hathaway played a mother who did everything she could to support her daughter. When Fantine (Hathaway) was fired from her job working in the factory, she had to resort to anything that resulted into her receiving some type of income. Fantine sold her hair and even sold herself into prostitution just to be able to provide for her daughter ("Les Miserables"). This scene often reaches out to many parents' emotions because just like Fantine, most would do anything just to provide for their family. Maybe a father has to work a third job or a family has to mortgage their house, and although these sacrifices are not as dramatic or extreme as falling into prostitution, the same emotions are shared from the characters in Les Miserables to the audience.

The Revolution trying to overthrow the French government was also displayed in this movie. Like many of us know, with war comes the sacrifices of many lives for the greater good. When I think of war, I do not just think of fighting and blood, I also think of love. With the Revolution in Les Miserables, a large amount of love is shown between characters and their families. Like in society today, many friends or significant others would take a bullet in order to save the person they love just as Eponine, a friend of Marius, did. With Eponine sacrificing her life for a friend, strong emotions are presented to the audience. War veterans and families of war heroes, are immediately connected and engaged in the movie because they can somehow relate themselves to one of the members of the Revolution. Later in the Revolution, all but one student dies leaving the one surviving with despair and devastation. This feeling of despair and devastation is always seen in families and through veterans when lives are lost. Because Hooper was able to engage and connect his audience with those feelings, he was able to make his movie and the meaning of it so much stronger.

One last component Hooper was able to correlate with his audience in order to make the movie successful was the struggles of a convict trying to get back on his feet. According to Fox43, a little over 60 percent of inmates return to prison within three years of being released. Seeing Jean Valjean's experience, the audience is able to correlate the hardships that recently released inmates experience. Just as Javert kept a close watch on Jean Valjean, many parole officers and citizens keep a close watch on people that have committed crimes in the past no matter what the present looks like. Just like Jean Valjean, inmates on parole experience struggles of turning their life around and are almost forced to commit another crime just to stay alive. Hooper was able incorporate Valjean's past to show the audience that people can indeed change no matter the circumstances. James Bernardinelli of Reelviews.net stated that Hooper "draws inspiration as much from the source material as from the musical to result in an engaging production that is guaranteed to enthrall audiences"(Berardinelli). With the inspiration of Jean Valjean's attempt to recover his footing, the audience is able to become engaged and can relate.

Les Miserables is viewed by critics as "a must see" and "spectacular movie." This film was able to attain the awards it did by capturing the audiences' emotions and running with them. Hooper used the bad economy, hardships of war, and recidivism as direct connections from the film to its audience and I believe this connection made the film win the awards it did and gain as much success as it gained. 