This film tells the story of Jean Valjean, a man condemned to hard labor for stealing food when he was hungry. After breaking parole, he will settle down with another name, but the goodness that he feels will compel him to take a child to look after, the daughter of a woman who couldn't help. Directed by Tom Hooper, the film has a screenplay written by William Nicholson and other helpers, based on the homonymous story of Victor Hugo. The cast is headed by Hugh Jackman, Russell Crowe, Anne Hathaway and Sacha Baron Cohen, among other actors.

The story of this film needs no introduction. This is one of the most famous novels of Victor Hugo, already adapted to the cinema, theater and also musical theater. In fact, most of the songs the film features are, in fact, taken from the stage musical. So, more than a film adaptation of a book, this is a film adaptation of a musical play.

No criticisms to make about the script: he convincingly adapts the story, preserving the magic of music. The actors are huge monsters of talent with excellent voices. Jackman gave a pure soul to his character, contrasting with the vocal gravity of Russell Crowe, who gave body to Javert, a man obsessed with the punishment of criminals and disbelieving in their rehabilitation. They're strong characters, played by seasoned actors with a huge presence on scene. The action scenes between them are breathtaking. Anne Hathaway also deserves a special mention, not only by the physical effort she felt to become Fantine (she became extremely thin and almost bald for the role), but mainly by the quality of what she could do. Staying with one of the most dramatic characters in the film, she played some of the most tragic scenes, and singed their saddest song, "I Dreamed A Dream". Its impossible not to cry watching these scenes and listening to the wonderful way the actress managed to sing that song and give a soul, almost martyr, to her character.

The scenarios are excellent and try to be faithful to the book and the story. The costumes too, and some of them deserve applause, portraying fairly the misery when the poorest lived. The visual effects fulfill their role discreetly but efficiently, and the soundtrack probably will be remembered by all who are watching this movie. Winner of three Oscars (Best Supporting Actress, Best Characterization, Best Editing and Sound Mixing), this is a film for the family and for everyone. 