I know that this gets some hatred for having too big of a budget and being a "tree-hugging" movie, but at least it was made with pride and respect for what it was. It won't exactly be timeless, though it will be well known for its box office success for a long time to come. Maybe some people get annoyed by the blatant Eco-friendly intent that goes with this movie, but making something that millions of people are going to see pertain to some social issues is not the worst thing in the world.

If you aren't too critical it can be a lot of fun to watch. This mostly applies to those who like action movies, particularly sci-fi action. If you're more of a rom-com or drama type of person, I probably don't need to tell you to steer clear of this. But for action fans, there are not many places you'll find cooler action set pieces than here. Just watching the exotic life of the Navi is worth the ticket price, not to mention their fantastic combative abilities and those of the creatures they interact with. There are very few slow parts, and these are pretty brief and many setup things that payoff later.

However, there are some deeper concepts to be found if you care to look. Basically, the movie serves as a macrocosm of what has happened throughout human history. A more advanced society wants various things that a weaker one can provide, namely materials, territory, commercial benefits, and scientific research. All of these desires are present throughout Avatar, and we see all of them play tug-of-war with Jake, so to speak.

Of course, the social commentary wasn't the only thing that sticks out in this movie. Most noteworthy are the computer graphics and visuals. Not all of the alien species look terribly realistic (mostly those dog types Jake fights his first night in the forest), but all look sharp and clear. It's all very colorful and more than a little weird-looking. This, coupled with the incredible sci-fi action sequences made it an ideal movie to see in theaters.

However, for visual spectacle to do any good, it has to tell a good story. You could argue that the story is weak. The narrative is coherent and there aren't any plot holes that stick out, but there are some story elements that feel "cheap". It's science fiction, which means the writers and story artists can just create some new rule for their universe if they have a story problem. A good example of this is when Jake prays to Eywa to assist the Navi in their fight against the humans, and all of nature is suddenly out in force for the climatic battle. Despite this, the characters are done pretty well. This doesn't mean they will necessarily be appealing, but they all have a well-defined goal, get introduced distinctly, and express what they want Jake to do for them so that we care about what they want. Now, this doesn't mean that each character has a believable or likable personality, because some of them don't. Jake makes a pretty good protagonist; a little generic, but with enough personality and motive and emotion to give him depth and make us root for him.

If you haven't seen this yet, try not to hype yourself up too much about it. The amount of money it made should not sway you into thinking that it is great or even good for that matter, but neither should it cause you to pass it off as garbage. I would recommend renting or borrowing it for free, and trying the first 30 minutes. But if the general look of it turns you away, then don't even bother. Overall Rating: 8.6/10. 