The thing what I know about "Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace" was that the trailer of this movie was quite amazing and surprisingly, there have been a lot of bad reviews when it first came out in theaters. Having myself going back at it and watching it again, it was actually much worse than I thought it would've been. It is terribly disappointed, sort of.

There are things in the film that are quite amazing, but there are also other things in the film that are just badly done. What make this film worth seeing are the visual effects. The pod race sequence, which many people refer back to the Chariot Race in "Ben- Hur", is amazing. The scene of where Qui Gon Jinn and Obi Wan Kenobi are having a lightsaber battle with Darth Maul is impressive.The score especially The duel of fates by John Williams is fantastic The production design is beautiful to look at. The sound effects are astounding. But when, the film falls down to plot and characters, they're not as impressive as the visual effects or the other good things that I brought up in my review.

There's of course, bad acting in the film. Natalie Portman's performance is kind of mediocre, although I do like her in general. Ahmed Best does the voice of Jar Jar Binks, and it's true of what a lot people say about his character, he is certainly unfunny and annoying. Jake Lloyd, who plays young Anakin Skywalker, is actually a real problem for me. I find his acting completely wooden, and I don't think he delivers anything at all good to the screen. However, I wouldn't want to say that all the actors in this movie are terrible. I think that Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor do a fine job of what they're doing. As for the dialogue, it's pretty dreadful. I was actually quite bored by these characters of where they're having these long, serious conversations to one another.

I can tell you honestly, I don't really at all hate this film like everybody else did, and I wasn't furiously angry at it either, but I was sort of disappointed with it. 