This is better. Much better. Since the Matrix Reloaded never made any attempt at a conclusion (even a temporary conclusion such as those found in Kill Bill or Lord of the Rings), it ended in a slump. And that's exactly where this film starts off. In fact the first half hour is the weakest of the trilogy, as the Wachowski's try to work out what feels like a recycled part of the last film, the conclusion that never was. Here, we are forced to endure another horrific encounter with the Merovingian (though thankfully, not nearly as long), a lobby scene sequence that is pathetic after the action we have seen in the first two films, a useless subplot involving the Trainman, and Neo trapped in Mobil (Limbo) station. This is weak, very weak. But once the film gets past it, it takes on a new life. And the results are fantastic. The Wachowskis, having decided that more is better should be the motto of the second Matrix, take a daring, dangerous, and entirely original way with this one. After the first half hour, there is no Matrix scene until the conclusive battle between Neo and Smith. Thus there is none of the mind-bending, gravity-defying action, either. And none of the philosophic pontificating that marred the second film. This takes place almost entirely in the Real World, and, though a daring move, it is a successful one. The characters take on more life here. Indeed, one could even go so far as to say they do some acting. In this film, Neo and Trinity's relationship for the first time becomes something other than a plot gimmick, and there are actually moments of chemistry. Morpheus, though a side-seat driver for the entire film, gains much more humanity after his disillusionment (it also helps that there are not philosophy lectures for him to recite.) Many of the lesser characters are rendered in three-dimensions this time (the captain of the Hammer, Niobe, Link). As for the Oracle, the sudden cast change after the death of the first one for this film does not hurt it at all. In fact, this new Oracle is much more compelling than the original, and (partially because she has a much bigger role), is the one I now think of when I think of the Matrix. First prize still has to go to Hugo Weaving, who continues his transformation in the form of Smith to diabolical levels. He is exaggerated and overplayed, in a manner that is totally successful (one is reminded of Jack Nicholson). HIs twisted sense of humour is now in perfect balance with his cold, machine like evil. Also remarkable is the actor who portrays Bane, a human occupied by Smith. He renders Hugo Weaving's mannerisms so perfectly, one thinks it is Hugo Weaving in disguise (it might be, I haven't checked.) As for the action, it is amazing. The Battle for the Docks is something completely new, and absolutely terrifying. Indeed, (and as a huge Lord of the Rings fan, this is saying something), it is comparable in adrenaline-activity to the Battle of Pelennor Fields. 250,000 sentinels turn the battleground into a nightmare apocalyptic vision. As for Neo and Trinity, there quest to the Machine City is equally fascinating, showing the surface world we have only seen briefly as another nightmare. THere is even a moment of actual poetry in which, bursting above the clouds, Trinity becomes the first human in 100 years to see the sky. The Machine City itself is something like Dr. Seuss on acid, and the Deus Ex Machina is a rather scary version of the Head of Oz. As for the final apocalyptic fight between Neo and Smith, it is just that. The effects of the rain are magnificent as the two Titans clash far above the earth. And the actual conclusion to the story, something that I had no idea how the Wachowskis would bring about after the second one, is actually pretty surprising and rather clever. All this being said, there are still flaws. The battle between Smith and Neo is great until it crashes into the ground (literally), after which, the momentum is lost, and the final effect is rather awkward. There are still horrible lines, but thankfully, most of them are just one or two lines, instead of entire dialogues. The actual ending of the film leaves something to be desired, a sunset happy-go-lucky meeting that seems to come more from Harry Potter than the Matrix. But, flaws aside, this is a much better film than Reloaded, and though no where near the masterpiece of the original, is still a worthy successor. 