Like many have stated and has been widely considered, the Matrix film is a classic and has been spawn on and praised for generations. Then comes the Matrix Reloaded which was not quite at the level of the original, but that was expected seeing as how great and game- changing the original was. Though Reloaded is still entertaining and there is enough to like about this film, it continues the great relationships with Neo and Trinity and we still have the same great concept. Now within the third installment and conclusion of the series The Matrix Revolutions, this film has been criticized throughout and one can see why. The film as a whole is disappointing because it does not feel as a typical Matrix film compared to the previous two. Revolutions feels more of a bland video game based film or another completely different type bland action film.

In the Matrix Revolutions, what is disappointing is knowing it's the finale of the series, and this is what the directors and writers came up with. There are some okay scenes but this film felt a little more mainstream and family friendly. Another reason why Revolutions is hated is because Neo isn't as focused in this film compared to the previous two. There is far too much time on the other minor characters and in the Zion levels. They simply aren't interesting and we do not care much about them. When we get to those scenes, this film drastically shifts and feels like a video game or action monster type film- and that is not what the Matrix is about. The previous two (specifically the original) were clever, suspenseful and made the viewers on their toes. In Revolutions, the suspense and build up is gone.

The final showdown scene with Neo and Agent Smith was decent for what it was, as it was well directed and the special effects are brought in nicely. Though it feels almost bland in a way that this was the pay- off for the entire film. We all knew Neo was going to win, as the fight was well but rather predictable. Overall, the Matrix Revolutions is a disappointment and a sad mess. 