I could leave it at that. Beautiful. However, I will of course add a bit more. I have read the novel that this is based on, and wasn't sure what to expect... would they "hollywood-ize" the story just to make it all fit, or to make it work. Of course, it would be VERY difficult to put everything Hugo put into his book into a single film... there were so many explanations, pondering, memories, descriptions, social criticism. However, the things they left out... they picked well. Was it really important to learn about Fantine's past, the love she lost in Paris? They left out the scene of her leaving her child with the innkeepers, but that was OK as well. They changed the plot, having Valjean and the policeman meet during Valjean's imprisonment, while in the book, they didn't meet until Valjean becomes a mayor.

All this doesn't even matter. What matters is - this movie is beautiful. The performances are. Yes, it WILL take time to get used to pretty much everything being sung. It might be tough to adjust to that. I don't even wanna THINK about this being on normal TV, with commercial breaks or anything. This is an amazing performance all the way through. The way it was made, with the actors singing on SET while performing, instead of having to lip sync... very bold, and it works.

I was very touched by many of the performances. I definitely am no fan of Anne Hathaway or Sasha Baron Cohen. Still, I loved what they did. Anne seemed to really FEEL the pain Fantine felt, the desperation, hopelessness, the feeling of being so wronged, her longing for her daughter. Both actors won me over with this. I will never enjoy the movies they are famous for, such as Princess Bride etc, but here, I simply have to admit they did an amazing job, and I was truly impressed.

Sasha Baron Cohen and Helena Bonham Carter added some comic relief, but it wasn't unnecessary, doesn't spoil things. It's not "lets ruin this serious story with some modern and silly humor". The scenes are a bit bizarre...it almost felt as if the whole bar-scene was co-directed by Tim Burton, and yet it works.

Hugh Jackman... I am saddened he didn't get an Academy Award for his performance. He went through a LOT for this, losing so much weight, trying to actually LOOK the part (like in prison or at the very end), his singing was great, his performance so emotional. There were several scenes, not only featuring Jackman, that had me in tears, and I was stunned by how much emotion and power most of the actors put into this.

There are some beautiful scenes and images... the prison-scene and Valjean's trip through the mountains. The barricades. The funeral parade.

Of course, the music is beautiful, all the way through.

This will surely not be for everyone. I did not know what to expect, but I was captivated all the way through, and am very very impressed. Any award they won for this, they deserved. 