For being the most hyped film of its time, You would hope that a film like this would be somewhat satisfying, But in reality this was arguably one of the biggest occurrences where fans would be disappointed. And I believe most of the sheer hype for this film was the fact that It was a George Lucas film, who brought the impacting and hugely popular idea "Star Wars" to the world back in May of 1977.

But does this film live up to its hope? No. Not at all.

The premise of this "new trilogy" is to to follow the story of Anakin Skywalker, who later becomes the iconic movie villain, Darth Vader. Now this idea in general isn't bad, Since it would be difficult to follow what would happen after Episode 6, and would definitely take lots of time, thinking and effort. But the glaring issue with this prequel storyline is that it only seems impactful and interesting until Episode 3.

With that said, the film isn't remotely entertaining. Its way of putting things together seems sloppy and looks much more like filler and a marketing move than actual lore, But the lackluster characters don't help much at all.

Most of the characters that appear in this film are not memorable or likable at all, theirs characters like Qui Gon who only seem to slow things down, Characters like Jar Jar who seems to be a failed marketing subject, and just comes down to look like "forced humor" that the fans has since just found annoying.

Another glaring issue is its heavy political dialogue. Now since this movie is mainly aimed at new generations of future Star Wars, this film decides to bore the ENTIRE audience with political dialogue, Which doesn't seem to fit at all, which shortens the attention span of the viewers who are watching Star Wars, not a CNN Broadcast who are covering today's news on the state of modern society.

The enemies, or antagonists that are in the film aren't that bad. The droids, the Separatist ground forces could've been threatening,Mainly because of the standard troopers spouting random dialogue like "Roger Roger!" In high pitched voices of them really rule down their intimidation. I wish they would be more like Terminators, not quite exactly like them, but more the ruthlessness and almost unstoppable features, which would make them seem like an actual threat. However the types of machinery like the Destroyer Droids are actually really creative and well made.

I also really like the fact that Palpatine's true motives are a mystery and his plot to rule the galaxy is growing, To me this is one of the best features of the prequels, It's almost like he is the overall embodiment of the Dark Side. Darth Maul, the apprentice of Palpatine had potential, But didn't have very many screen-time at all, which sucked.

A aspect that isn't necessary is the movie taking place while Anakin is an 8 year old boy. If they were to make him a little older his overall character would be more relate-able and interesting, Which is one of the things Episode 4 did so well with Luke. Anakin didn't even have to be Luke's age, he could've been a at least a little older so he would mold with the overall story much better.

The film also has trouble with scenes that seem out of place, or just there for added marketing, Which is very aggravating. For example, we have the Famous pod-racing segment, Which Anakin volunteers to do since the winning payment will allow the protagonists to buy another hyper- drive system, which is their ticket out of the Outer Rim. But this is clearly there sourly for the purpose of making Video Games based on this specific scene. And Anakin accidentally destroying a CIS control ship just seems unrealistic and strange.

The use of CGI in this movie is mediocre in a sense that sometimes its used right and sometimes it doesn't seem necessary. For example, the CG effects helped enhance the Lightsaber battles, they look more fluent and are much more entertaining to watch. But some of the different species look just awful because of their CG.

The Final act somewhat borrows what Episode 6 did, having the final act having different things going on. It worked well for Episode 6 but here it seems like there is too much going on.

The only one of these I found fitting was the duel with Darth Maul. Its the best part of this film. Its one of the only scenes that is honestly enjoyable.

The Track "Duel of the Fates" that goes with it is simply incredible. Its powerful orchestra elements and the sheer power of the chorus makes this one of the greatest tracks in film history, And i'm not kidding.

And this leads me to my final point with this film, Its incredible musical score by John Williams himself, who's music actually improved the films scenes and movie itself. Without John Williams score, this film would be almost nothing.

Overall, Though its flaws may be evident It can be enjoyable, since its Star Wars after all. But if your looking for a superb Star Wars experience, skip this one. But if your looking for something to watch, then give this one a shot. Its not exactly good, but it certainly has its moments. 