When you are a movie fan or an audience member that likes movie, at one point they will find a movie that they know that technically its not a great film but have fun watching it and enjoys it. Well the time has come for me to tell you guys mine Clash of the Titans (2010) and yes I know things are wrong with it but I still love this crap!! Let me take you when I was 10 years old, this was the time I starting to love the art form know as film and understand it. And then saw the trailer for this movie and thought to myself " this is going to suck!" and funny thing is I think people had the complete opposite reaction as me because I think they though the trailer looked great and then hated the film while me I hated the trailer and Loved the film. So one Friday night I went to blockbuster and rented this movie and order some Pizza, I went home saw it with my sister and some slices of Pizza and completely loved it. And then went on a trip to San Francisco and told to my cousin how much I loved this movie and regretted I did not see it in 3D cause that was the time I started to love the 3D gimmick. But then he told me this movie sucked and did not believe it but then the reality came that most critic and movie fans hated this movie and I felt like the only person who really enjoyed well this is not the first time it happened (Spider-Man 3 and Tron: Legacy I also saw later that year and still really enjoy it) and that the 3D conversion was terrible. And then I grew up and realized script was not great, but I still have so much fun watching it. Like the customs for the Gods are so flashy and ridicules but it so funny. The acting Ralph Fiennes over acting it, Liam Neeson always sounds like going speeches , Gemma Arterton only there for being hot and Sam Worthing being likable but not the best actor around but I kinda like him actually. The action really well executed, well paced, obvious CG ,Lazy Kraken design, crappy script but you know what I love It! This is my guilty pleasure what's yours? 10/10 