It is the early 19th century. An old man is thrown into an insane asylum after trying to commit suicide. He is Antonio Salieri and in the asylum he is visited by a priest, to whom he confesses that he killed Mozart. He then recounts his time as court composer to Emperor Joseph II of Austria. Mozart appears at the court and is hired by the Emperor to produce an opera. His genius is quite evident. Salieri is a devout Christian man and believes all musical talent and inspiration is given by God. Mozart's personal life and extracurricular activities appall Salieri. He cannot reconcile Mozart's talent and his lifestyle and sets out to drive him from the court. Initially his aim is to undermine him but over time his intentions turn deadlier.

An enthralling, enchanting, edifying masterpiece. Directed by Milos Forman, who also gave us One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest and Ragtime and, later, Man On The Moon and The People vs Larry Flynt. Like in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, insanity is one of his themes, especially, here, the link between creative genius and insanity (this was also touched on in Man On The Moon).

With this in mind, there's a lightness to the movie which propels it along. The movie could easily have been a long, linear, paint-by- numbers account of Mozart's adult life, but Forman gives his characters heaps of depth, and, as mentioned, creates a vibrancy which is very engaging.

There is also plenty of darkness, and this plays off against the light on a few levels: insanity vs sanity, funny vs sombre moments, Salieri's faith vs the hedonism of Mozart (and Salieri's later doubts of his own faith). A wonderful combination of contrasts.

Most of all, this is an exploration of creative genius, the genius that was Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Forman, aided by Tom Hulce as Mozart, F Murray Abraham as Salieri and a wonderful orchestra and soundtrack, powerfully illustrates just how staggeringly talented Mozart was. For example, we have him writing down compositions without correction - he didn't need to play them, it was all in his head and perfectly formed. We also have Mozart dictating music he had just created in his head, showing his thought processes. His creative process is laid bare for all to see, and it is amazing.

As mentioned, the soundtrack is great. Background pieces are produced well and chosen well.

Both Tom Hulce and F Murray Abraham were nominated for Best Actor Oscars, and both deserved their nominations. F Murray Abraham's Salieri is a study in machinations and malevolence. Hulce is wonderfully over-the-top as the free-spirited genius Mozart. Abraham won the Oscar, but both are fantastic in their roles.

Supporting cast gives solid performances. Among the cast are Jeffrey Jones, as Emperor Joseph II, and Simon Callow plus Cynthia Nixon in an early-career minor role. 