Unfortunately, I haven't gotten my facts straight. If there are errors concerning the plot line, I apologize in advance.

The Star Wars franchise has opened doors for the gradual exploration of what experience the digital screen can truly bring us. Having just watched The Force Awakens after the original trilogy, I have decided to watch the prequel movies, which have garnered much criticism over the years.

It is easy to see why.

It is true that the dialogue is a bit far-fetched at times, and not brought to its full potential, particularly because it is not fully grounded and does not serve as a foundation for the world being explored. There are times when the voices of the actors seem a bit out of place in a certain scene, but it is understandably hard to act, and this may serve as the actors' personal take on their characters.

It is, again, understandable why so many have been disappointed by this long-awaited release back in 1999. Putting that behind, this is my first viewing of The Phantom Menace, and I would just like to say some things about this movie.

There are still things to look forward to, despite how sloppy the execution is. One would be the mere concept of the SW universe before Darth Vader came into being. The exploration of Anakin's origins begins in the Phantom Menace, which introduces new characters like Qui-Gon-Jinn who oversees his training in becoming a Jedi knight, and has us see characters from the original trilogy in a new light like Obi-Wan Kenobi, who is a Jedi knight-to-be here, and a C3PO being a creation of a young Anakin.

Let's face it. No one liked Jar Jar Bink's presence on screen. Those who have watched this movie will understand why.

The prequels serve as an expansion to our knowledge on the Star Wars universe, providing insight on the inner workings of the Republic. Senator/Chancellor Palpatine, secretly Darth Sidious, plots to take over the systems, later coming to be known as the Emperor (in the original trilogy). Caught in it all is Queen Amidala, a queen of a democratic state who refuses to leave the fate of her people to the dispassionate Republic (or at least, what the Republic has become).

They barely leave an impression, but for those who fully enjoy the Star Wars universe, the prequel movies can be a treat, if you can clear your mind of all that makes it what it 'is' today.

The Phantom Menace is a hard movie to rate. As a movie, I would give it a 5, but to its credit, it serves well as a prequel to the Star Wars' original trilogy, and doesn't completely alienate itself from the other Star Wars films like some people say it does. It still is a Star Wars film at heart - the view's just mucked up by a few things, that's all. The experience itself I would rate a 7. I was perhaps fortunate to view the films several years after its release, and frankly, I was not expecting much from this movie. It exceeds expectations, definitely. If you embrace the world surrounding it, it doesn't become as hard to watch it as it was at first, and might even mean more to you if the chance offers itself one day.

Thus, the 6. 