"The Matrix" is one of my favorite movies. Seeing as how everyone was talking about how awful this one was, I was surprised that it had a rating of 6.7. I guess I agree that it's not good, but it's at least okay. Probably the best part is how it really does get better in the last two thirds. The first third of this movie is dreadfully boring and I just don't know why these actors aren't raising their voices. It makes everything rather bland. You can really notice the lack of emotion more in this, while it wasn't as apparent in the previous films. I think the main problem is how this film was paced.

It shows twenty minutes of the humans in Zion fighting and then twenty minutes of Neo fighting. I would have enjoyed it more if it had combined the two. There was little variety that way. Nonetheless, there were definitely good things about the movie. The CGI is very good and it even seems to have improved from the last movie. Considering they were filmed right next to each other, that really is saying something. Hugo Weaving is just so entertaining as Smith. While it's difficult to take him seriously, it's still really hard to not be entertained on some level by this guy. I'm impressed by the sheer number of different roles he's had in popular franchises.

I just love the idea of Smith escaping to the real world. They did that part fairly well. Then again, it might just be because like I said before, he's such an entertaining character.

The basic story is that the humans are fighting the machines while Smith has taken over the Matrix. Neo decides to go to the machine leader to stop fighting if he defeats Smith. I admit that this conclusion is really too convenient and seems like a cop out. It's still nice to see the conclusion of such a popular movie series. I bought "The Matrix" package films in one box set and I think it was money well spent. Even if the ending was mostly unsatisfactory, it's by no means awful. I guess I could recommend it if only because it's something that's really popular and does have some good variety. It even seems like they were trying to give all the characters some important role even though it didn't work out nearly as much as something like Return Of The King or Return Of The Jedi. I have a soft spot for third entries in a series...and also ones that have "Return Of The" in the title for some reason. **1/2 out of ****. 