I told myself I wasn't going to review this disgrace of a movie because I don't wanna relive the god-awful memories of watching it. After years of holding it in, I decided to just get it off my chest and be done with it.

First of all, if you aren't familiar with the story I don't know how on earth you'd be able to keep up and gather anything from the movie. I've read the novel when I was a teen and finding out it's been made into a musical really took me by surprise. This isn't a story that should be translated into a musical, and this is coming from a huge fan of musicals. Granted, I haven't seen the Broadway version, but a fact is a fact: the story is far too complex and goes deep into character development, musicals simply can't portray that much depth. Most musicals are well aware of this, mind you, so their stories are usually straight to the point to allow the viewer to focus on both the story and the music.

Another reason as to why this novel isn't supposed to be a musical is that it's too dark and depressing. We've all had our emo teen angsty days where we wallowed in depressing music, but this is different. Monotonous sad music that goes on for 3 hours will inspire no emotions in you apart from just wanting to get this over with.

I've never left a theater before the movie was over, much less when watching a musical, but after two (give or take) hours I just wanted to go out, breathe some fresh air and remind myself that this is the real life not a nightmare. I truly couldn't tell the songs apart as there was just no break from singing, I mean this literally when I say they sang from beginning to end, non-stop.

How did this movie garner so many nominations and awards? The answer is quite simple: the Academy Awards have always favored actors above others and give their awards accordingly, regardless of the movie. This abomination of a movie receiving praise and awards is offensive to musicals, music itself, the novel and Victor Hugo.

What truly baffles me is neither the critics nor Hollywood, but the audience who are appreciating this movie. It doesn't matter if you like the stars or the visuals, though everything was horrendous, a badly executed movie is just a bad movie, period. Maybe it's a lack of exposure to musicals, maybe it's the need to like whatever's mainstream and blending in with the hive. Regardless of the reason, it's a shame that this movie gets this much attention when so many other movies, infinitely better than this one (albeit not quite a hard task), go unnoticed. 