Les Mis is a great film adaptation of a great musical. Under Tom Hooper's direction, the cinematography, costuming and setting are breathtakingly amazing and contextually accurate. The characters and plot stay true to the musical, which is heartening to see when so many film adaptations like to make changes.

There is, however, one slight problem.

The singers.

It is obvious that these singers have been cast for their big names and the reputation that they bring to the film's marketing, rather than the strength of their voices. If you have never listened to either the 10th or 25th anniversary concerts, their voices may be passable, but as an avid listener of the 25th, I thought most of the cast's performances were weak.

Hugh Jackman is obviously unable to reach the high notes of songs such as 'Who Am I' and 'One Day More', and is unable to hold long notes. He also seems to lack control, demonstrated in 'Bring Him Home'. The song is supposed to start off gently and quietly and build up to an epic climax, but Jackman belts the song the whole way through, ruining the pleading and ponderous tone of the song.

Russell Crowe's performance as Javert is lacklustre in the fact that he is unable to emote Javert's firm authority. In 'Fantine's Arrest', 'Confrontation' and 'Stars', Crowe drags his notes on, removing the power and strictness that a crisper staccato would bring.

Anne Hathaway, however, emotes too much. Her acting ability is absolutely amazing as Fantine, portraying her struggles and her desperation brilliantly. However, she extends this too much to her singing, and the result is a boring rendition of 'I Dreamed A Dream' that is so spluttery it's difficult to listen to.

Eddie Redmayne and Aaron Tveit as Marius and Enjolras (respectively) lack power and conviction in their voices for the roles of the revolutionaries. However, I do think that Redmayne delivered a decent rendition of 'Empty Chairs At Empty Tables'.

Interestingly, although people complained about Amanda Seyfried's voice, I thought it suited her character. It is sweet and gentle and plain, which reflects Cossette's innocence and purity.

Samantha Barks as Eponine is amazing, probably because Barks played her in the 25th anniversary concert and has had previous theatre experience.

In short, Les Miserables is a good film adaptation, but the choice of casting makes it lack the emotional depth and poignancy that other productions have had. The only redeeming features of the music were the epic choral songs and the beautiful orchestra. 