I recently rewatched the Phantom Menace and I really enjoyed it. The story, characters, action set pieces and most of all the star wars universe.

In recent years, the star wars prequels but more specifically The Phantom Menace has become a joke. It's extremely slammed because of its overly long senate meetings, boringness and lack of action. I disagree with all this.

I grew up loving the phantom menace just as much as the other Star Wars movies as a kid. Growing up, I now see some of its issues but not nearly as much as I thought I would. This movie is really good.

The Phantom Menace is about the Trade Federation trying to take over Naboo. The focus isn't always on Naboo as we see the origins of a young boy Anakin Skywalker, a reckless podracer seeking adventure. Amongst all of this, the sith who have been extinct for a very long time resurge.

I think this is a really interesting story and it's well executed. One of two main issues that I have with the movie is in the story. Qui Gon & co spend way too much time on Tatoine. I know this is building up Anakin's story but it could've been done in a more effective way. A frequent complaint about this movie is that boy Anakin is annoying. This is true but not that much. He's really not as annoying as another character I'll talk about later. Anyway, it's a really good story.

The characters are great in this movie. Liam Neeson as Qui Gon and Ewan McGregor as Obi Wan definitely steal the show. they are really well developed characters. It's so sad to see Qui Gon die at the end. The side characters are also good except Jar Jar. Yeah, I'll say it : he's extremely annoying. He's not in all the scenes so that's a relief.

Some people say this movie is 75% counsel meetings. Those people clearly haven't recently rewatched the film. There's only about 15 minutes of counsel meetings in total and I found them rather interesting. They showed how dysfunctional the republic was. That being said, this movie is pretty action packed whether you want to admit or not. Short negotiations, an epic podrace, a race through Naboo, a short first Darth Maul duel, a war between the Gungans and the droids, another race through Naboo and the main palace and of course an epic lightsaber duel. This movie is far from boring. Another reason why this movie is awesome is because during the epic final lightsaber duel, we see Jedi in their prime. In the old Star Wars movies, Jedi were extinct, a myth. In this one, we see them at their most badass.

Like I said, this movie expands on the Star Wars universe. We get to see another era of this universe. One where the Jedi aren't a myth and are very present. An era where Sith were extinct. And most of all, many new awesome planets like Naboo and Coruscant.

Finally, the general public may not like this movie but their reasons are weak. I'll admit Jar Jar is really annoying but young Anakin not so much and you must be a child with a very small attention span if you thought those 15 MINUTES of counsel meetings were boring. If you're going to destroy this movie as much as the fans did, at least find a valid reason. I'm honest with myself : it was awesome. 