Making a comparison between the first film of the original trilogy of "Star Wars" and the first one of the prequels is just heartbreaking. Where there was fun and wit, there are dumb, flat, B-comedy jokes. Where there were fantastic characters there are weak, poor and sometimes irritating characterizations that make you hate the new ones and even the old ones in their new guise. "Star Wars: The Phantom Menace" is easily the most disappointing film ever, considering the hype and hope that everybody had at the time to see something that could stand between the originals. I usually say that the prequels can't be canon, they must be considered a fan fiction that someone started as a kid (Episode I), then continued as a frustrated emo teenager (Episode II) and ended as a disillusioned adult (Episode III). Jokes aside -if that is to be considered a joke-, it's very hard for a fan to not get angry at all this mess. Story-wise, the introduction of a scientific reason behind the Force is a gigantic mistake, as it takes away all of the magic aura the concept was surrounded by. Character-wise, Ana-kid is unbearable and his final act is so random you'd hope you never saw it, while the others are barely easier to sympathize with, also thanks to some of the most wooden performances by otherwise good actors. The baddies in this one are most significantly represented by the honestly good looking Darth Maul, but his haunting looks are not supported by an adequate personality, which is as thin as paper. Even the music is not as good as before, consolidating my idea that John Williams perfectly molds his soundtracks on the movie, for better or for worse. Let's take a breath, though, and evaluate the silver linings. The massive CGI use is still impressive, with a number of strange and imaginative creatures and vehicles (in the best Star Wars tradition), with kinda-exciting scenes where characters shut up and let the computer graphics entertain. And, fortunately, they do. So, although I hate when that happens, special effects and a little imagination on Lucas's side help the otherwise messed up movie.

Your best course with "The Phantom Menace" is to get excited for those great, imaginative worlds and effects and to forget the rest. 6/10 