After protesting for as long as I could, my brother convinced me to see the third installment of the Matrix trilogy, The Matrix Revolutions. I will begin by saying that I was a big fan of the first film, and was curious to see how the story would end. I went into the movie with as open a mind as I could, but after the first forty-five minutes I was just angry at how bad the movie really was.

It was at this point that Neo was reunited with Trinity after being held by the "Frenchman" in a sort of limbo (in this case it was a white on white on white train station.) This story line was entirely useless, especially since the conflict was resolved and served no point in the rest of the movie, except to introduce a cute little girl who is a machine, a useless program going on to live with the Oracle. (I lie, this story-line also gave the Wachowski brothers an excuse to film both a bondage night club and Monica Belucci's ample cleavage.)

The movie goes on from there building up tension and "drama" that leads up to the breaching of the last human city, Zion. Another thing I do not understand is why the humans want to be free? The Matrix is a much better place to live than the real world, which is dark and cold and only hospitable under the ground. The people here have reverted to a new religion and to wearing horrifically unflattering clothing. Why would they choose this life of constant turmoil and darkness over the life of at least supposed happiness in the matrix?

The movie builds up to two climaxes, one involving Neo in the Machine City and another involving the rest of mankind in Zion. In the end there is a depressingly anti-climatic battle in Zion where lots of stuff blows up real good, and not one person shows a single emotion. It is as if the directors told each actor to choose an emotion and facial expression to go along with that emotion and to stick with it. Watch closely Morpheus and Trinity for an example of this.

Neo ends up having to fight the billions of Agents Smiths that have taken over the Matrix. If he wins, there will be peace, if not Zion will be destroyed. Since it all comes down to this battle, then what was the point of the rest of the movie? Especially the drawn out battle scene that precedes the films second climax? It is enough to make a person mad.

In the end Neo of course defeats Smith in a manner that made no sense to me or my brother. Peace is declared and the Matrix trilogy comes to the most infuriating happy ending ever in the history of movies.

Earlier I said that I was a fan of the first film, that has all changed because of what the Matrix went on to become. With the first film, they made history, but with the second two the Wachowski's have committed murder. The special effects in the second two movies are not eve as impressive, especially in Revolutions (never before have I seen a more boring gun fight!) This movie is infuriating and poorly written with so/so special effects and some of the worst acting ever captured o film (Yes, I am including the Star Wars Prequels). Skip this movie, skip Reloaded and simply watch the Matrix on DVD. It is far better. 