Frankly I don't care what anybody says about Avatar. Whether they say it's overrated or it didn't deserve to be the highest grossing movie of all time or or it's unoriginal or it's too long or boring or it they say "this is better than Avatar" it's still up there with some of my favourite movies of all time. I mean people were the same when Titanic was released; a lot of people called it overrated but that didn't stop it from winning 11 Oscars and being called a masterpiece by many others. James Cameron has made a lot of great movies in his career like the first two Terminator movies, Aliens, True Lies, Titanic and Avatar is up there with them.

I was blown away by it when I saw it in the cinema. It was like I was actually on the planet Pandora myself. I know the movie takes stories from other movies like Disney's Pocahontas and The Last Samurai. But I mean look at The Lion King for instance, it used the same story from other stories like Hamlet and Moses and it's considered one of the greatest animated movies ever made. And sometimes originality isn't always a good thing; I mean look a Twilight. Do you think it's a good idea to have vampires sparkling?

But anyway let me tell you why I really enjoy Avatar, I enjoy pretty much everything about Avatar: the action, the effects, the characters and even the story. I mean I like how Jake Sully as a nobody but as the movie progresses, he becomes a hero among Na'vi and brings them all together to face off the humans who are destroying their planet. In fact, you might say that Avatar is more about special effects, but it just shows that anybody can become a hero no matter who they are. I also enjoy Zoe Saldana as Neytiri and Avatar (as well as 2009's Star Trek) made her a superstar and the romance between her and Jake Sully. And the battle scenes are just as epic as battles scenes in movies like The Lord of the Rings or Braveheart. And I like like the dramatic moments as well.

So in conclusion, let me just say Avatar is #14 on my top 30 favourite movies list and I recommend everyone to see it and I look forward to the sequels in the near future. 