Anyone not a "Les Miserables" fan, who just want to see a flashy movie with name-brand actors to get the gist of the stage show, may be satisfied by this flick.

First, my bona fides. It's the greatest theatrical experience I've ever seen (more than once). I own the London album, the Broadway album, a "Complete" album and an album of excerpts. On DVD I have the 10th anniversary production and a documentary called "Stage by Stage" (a history of how the show was put on). I know all the words, though I can't sing a note. Hey, I even read the unabridged novel.

First, the things it did right. The production values are wonderful. It looks great. The sets and costumes are astounding. Some of the casting is spot-on. Helena Bonham-Carter was born to play Madame Thenardier. Crowe was an inspired choice for Javert and Jackman, while not inspired, has done theatrical singing. Losing the "Act" structure, the Act-II show-stopper "On My Own" is in a better place in the movie.

Now, the things that made a hash of.

1)"Les Miserables" isn't a "musical" but a full-blown opera. Therefore, while acting is important, the music must be the driving force. But instead of doing the music first and getting an ultimate flavor of the wonderful score, they decided to experiment and do the singing "live" -- that is, while the film was rolling, rather than mouthing to pre-recorded tunes. With the stars singing as they act, actors are guiding the music! Furthermore, it means when they're walking around their voices waver. Try singing and walking! I'm all for experimentation in the movies, but to take one of the biggest products ever to hit Broadway, whose music is beloved of millions, and to experiment in a movie of this scope was ridiculous, and it simply didn't work.

2) Some of the actors are not really good singers. In the old days, when they knew how to do musical movies, they might take an actor like Gloria Graham in "Oklahoma" and have her singing again and again and again and then splice together all the times she accidentally wobbled into tune. Here, some of the singing is simply not worthy of the music.

(Spoilers below)

3) A few subjective disappointments:

a) the Thenardiers were meant to be comic relief, a bit of light-heartedness coming in after all the horrors. But the lethargic, dreamlike, nightmarish way "Master of the House" is presented hardly raises the spirits (if you want the ultimate in spirit-raising "Masters" try Barry James in "Stage by Stage" which is included in the "Les Miserables" 10th anniversary concert--he's a hoot). Helena does well, but "Master of the House" should be raucous and here, it's whispered. I'd like to have heard Helena turned loose and shouting like other Madame Thenardiers I've seen.

b) At the end, the Thenardiers are humiliated by being carried bodily out. Well, the Thenardiers should be humiliated . . . but I think they should go out with their heads high, knowing that the world belongs to the likes of the Thenardiers, and their type always do worm to the top of the dungheap. And their singing, being done live, is rotten when they're being carried out. Double whammy.

(BIG SPOILER)

c) The ending was affecting (yes, I cried, as I always do, even when I see it in concert). But they have too many closeups and they made two absolutely dumb decisions. The first was to lose that great harmony at the end between the ghosts of Fantine and Eponine, which is always beautiful (and what happened to Fantine's hair? Usually, she is restored to her full beauty when she comes back as a ghost.) The second dumb decision was, in the reprise of "Do You Hear the People Sing" to show an endless barricade, hung with French flags. Frankly, and this might just be me, I find the idea that Heaven is a kind of barricade absolutely repulsive. Because of this idiotic image (which, admittedly, was beautifully done) I won't even have a copy of this flick in my house. Shame on you! Shame!

d) "One More Day" (in some versions, "One Day More") was the big Act I climax. Losing the Act structure meant they might have feared they couldn't have a climax at that time in the film, so they downplay the whole thing, but I didn't find it at all exciting or moving (and since they were comic relief, would it have been too awful, after some of the imagery presented in "Master of the House," to have the Thenardiers stick their heads up out of a sewer grating like they do on stage, which is always good for a laugh?

e) In "Empty Chairs at Empty Tables," when Marius is braying about seeing phantom faces at the windows and phantom shadows on the floor, would it have been too much effort to show the images he's seeing? They do such wonderful things in film. How about swinging the camera around him and in one sweep, seeing his fallen comrades and then in the next sweep, they're gone? Just to get inside Marius' head for a moment! Criminy, people, don't movie-makers have any imagination these days? If Heaven can be an endless barricade (if I get there I hope there won't be any more fighting, for God's sake!) they can show a phantom face at a bloody window.

Are there more problems with this movie? You bet. I started with the worst offenders (live singing) and worked down to subjective disagreements that have nothing to do with the film per se. IMHO--what a disaster! To borrow from another famous work of fiction, "The Horror!" 