I'll try and not spoil too much with this review.

OS = This movie is easily among st one of the best movies I have seen, but that seemed to be the case when it comes to James Cameron movies.

1= This movie is visually stunning right from the beginning not only visually stunning but also beautiful, you could also pause the movie at any point and your TV could be doubled as a over sized picture frame.

2= Not only this movie allows you to understand the Avatar Universe early but it also makes it easy for you to understand the Avatar Universe.

3= The plot from the movie to me feels almost like it could be a Star Trek Movie (NOT JJ ABREMS REBOOT). Of curse I'm talking about the classic Star Trek Movies.

4= There is an Alien creature in the movie that kind of looks like of an Alien Xenomorph.

5= The Pandora Planet also an African Jungle Amazon feel an look to it. The reason I found that interesting is because that is all I was thinking about while I was watching the movies as to the regards of the sitting in which the movie takes place.

6= As I was watching the movie I feel that the over all message of the movie is Cultural Understanding, and Cultural Acceptance more Understanding than Acceptance. Which goes along with my Statement from above. About the movie feeling like an idea for a Classic Star Trek Movie.

7= In addition as I was watching the movie I was constantly reminded of the metaphor of the old West in which the people in the West invade and attack the Native Americans but in space. In this case the Humans are the Western Invaders, and the Na'vi are the Native Americans.

8= The VO (Voice Over) in the movie is really great, it is told in the format of a Video Diary, and I'm not just talking about Jack the main character telling us what's going in the terms of his mission, but also in the terms of his changing feelings through out the movie and what is he planing what to do. And it's not your typical Video Diary VO either, it's not just VO in the beginning to open the movie and at the same time explain to us the audience what the world of Pandora is. And another VO at the end to close the movie up and at the same time to show what the effects of climax events had on both sides. No it's not like that at all, Jack the main character constantly provides his VO in his POV so it truly becomes a Video Dairy, and not just away for us the audience to know what is going on. And I like that it gives you a sense of feeling that the audience is a character in the movie, and that the main character Jack is constantly reporting back to you the audience in Video Diary format. Like you are an government official back on earth or something. I like movies that have that, it's too bad that not more movies have that.

9= Another thing I have noticed while watching the movie is that the main bases for the Na'vi Cutler, is being one with Nature. Now the Na'vi are literally one with Nature, but it got me thinking maybe humans should be with one with Nature. I'm talking MORE than JUST camping and hugging trees, no I'm talking about NOT holding innocent animals captive and NOT shooting innocent animals just for the sport of it. I think the only justly reasons to kill an animal is, A when you are protecting your self, and B when you need you need food while in nature. For me those are the ONLY two justly reasons to kill an animal(s), and the like. So in short I think we should try and take a page from the Na'vi Cutler's book and try and coexist with animals, because if we don't then I would agree with Agent Smith in the first Matrix movie when he said that Humans are nothing but a Diseases Plague a Cancer for this planet. I don't know about you but the very idea bring compered to an Infection is uneasy to me to say the least.

10= Any ways back to the cherry stuff, this movie is not only beautiful visually but as for the Emotional aspect that is also beautiful.

11= The Soundtrack. Not only it's the one of the best Soundtracks I have heard in any movie, but also the Soundtrack helps you care about the characters and what's going on at that point in time in the movie. But also at one point in the movie I thought the Soundtrack was so good I not only thought to myself that I got to get this Soundtrack, but also some of the music for this movie is so relaxing it puts you in a Meditative State at least it did for me. And on top of all that the Soundtrack for this movie I found that it also helps you get invested in more than just the characters in the movie but it also gets you invested in the movie as a whole, on what is happening at that point in the movie on what is about to happen, etc.

CS= Now the movie is not perfect I did have some minor problems in it, such as the Climax fight. And I have to admit at some parts it's really predictable like predicting who the real villain is early on in the movie. And finally I'm not sure this movie really needs a sequel, much less multiple sequels, to me it wraps everything up nicely. The only reason to make sequel(s) to this movies is I'm sorry to say Greed 