this film is set 32yrs before the original star wars a new hope. in phantom menace is the first episode in brilliant sci fi space saga every saga has a beginning I loved star wars as a child i booked my tickets to see the first show when it came out straight out of work into see it and I loved it great cast to bring the magic Ewan McGregor ...Obi-Wan Kenobi Natalie Portman ... Queen Amidala / Padme Jake Lloyd ... Anakin Skywalker Ian McDiarmid ... Senator Palpatine Pernilla August ... Shmi Skywalker

Oliver Ford Davies ... Sio Bibble Hugh Quarshie ... Captain Panaka Ahmed Best ... Jar Jar Binks Anthony Daniels ... C-3PO (voice) Kenny Baker ... R2-D2 Frank Oz ... Yoda (voice) Terence Stamp ... Chancellor Valorum Samuel L. Jackson ... Mace Windu directer by George Lucas at 2hrs 12mins its worth the effort 8/10 Two Jedi Knights escape a hostile blockade to find allies and come across a young boy who may bring balance to the Force, but the long dormant Sith resurface to reclaim their old glory. Liam Neeson ... Qui-Gon Jinn character is Unifying the living force was Qui-Gon's ultimate achievement. During the mission to Naboo, Qui-Gon's destiny allowed him to seek out Anakin who would then bring balance to the force in a way which was not expected. The prophecy was seen to be misconstrued by the Jedi Council due to the lack of communication with midiclorians. Before becoming a Padwan learner with Obi-Wan, Qui-Gon tells Anakin Skywalker of the importance of the midiclorians and the way they communicate. "Learn to quiet your mind and you will hear them talking to you". as young ankin wins a race he is showing his skills flying saving jar jar Bink's and the fleet accidentally the prophecy To hear the will of the force was something all Jedi were trained to do and Master Yoda was no exception. Yoda was aware of this and was deep in meditation when he first heard something unexpected. During the massacre of the Sand People, Yoda heard the voice of Qui-Gon calling out "Anakin!". Focusing on this, Yoda then attuned his mind to communicate with Qui-Gon. Something he would later pass to Ob-Wan Kenobi through Qui-Gon's mentoring.

Communication with Qui-Gon allowed Yoda and Obi-Wan to transform into the force. Either by increased meditation focus or at the time of passing. Although Qui-Gon did not transform in Qui-Gon is curious about the boy, and sees a bright future for him. The group must now find a way of getting to Coruscant and to finally solve this trade dispute, but there is someone else hiding in the shadows. Are the Sith really extinct? Is the Queen really who she says she is? And what's so special about this young boy The two Jedi escape, and along with their new Gungan friend, Jar Jar Binks head to Naboo to warn Queen Amidala, but droids have already started to capture Naboo and the Queen is not safe there. Eventually, they land on Tatooine, where they become friends with a young boy known as Anakin Skywalker. Qui-Gon is curious about the boy, and sees a bright future for him. The evil Trade Federation, led by Nute Gunray is planning to take over the peaceful world of Naboo. Jedi Knights Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi are sent to confront the leaders. But not everything goes to plan. The two Jedi escape, and along with their new Gungan friend, Jar Jar this film is set 30 years before a new hope 