"The time we live in is a postmodern age where a certain amount of irony is expected. This film is made without irony" (Wioszcyna, "Tom Hooper 'confused' by criticism of 'Les Mis'"). Tom Hooper, director for the box office hit Les Miserables (Hooper, 2012) defended his own film to interviewers when asked what he thought of some critics' response to his movie. Instead of caving to criticism, Hooper owned his movie had no postmodern charm of satire in it. While some critics view it a cheap and cheesy emotional manipulation, Les Miserables (Hooper 2012) is a motion picture masterpiece because of the director's innovation in on-screen musicals, honest expression of raw emotions without irony, and the way he portrayed the themes.

Les Miserables (Hooper 2012) is an adaption of a Broadway musical to a movie. The complications with adapting a play to a screen are that the camera is a much more flexible medium than a stage and, specifically for musicals, the staged songs can seem forced and inorganic. However, director Tom Hooper and screenwriters were able to overcome theses difficulties. The camera work makes the play come alive as a video production. The singing in the film feels entirely organic because it was filmed on set. The actors actually had earpieces with a piano playing to keep them on key while they were shooting (IMBD.com). While the earpiece itself isn't revolutionary, the piano on the other end created a new way to film musicals. During the movie, the actor or actress singing set the tempo and the piano played along to the tempo he or she sang on camera. By allowing the natural tempo of the actors and actresses to rule the scenes, the songs sound as if the characters wrote them.

Some critics have pointed to the film's lack of irony as cheap emotional manipulation. However, as the director Tom Hooper pointed out, the object of the film was not to lighten the emotional story by making it satirical (Wioszcyna, "Tom Hooper 'confused' by criticism of 'Les Mis'"). Through singing, the audience has a different emotional experience than in most movies. Crafted without irony in the plot, the movie sets a different tone. As New York Times critic Stanley Fish pointed out, Les Miserables (Hooper 2012) defeats irony by not allowing the distance it requires. If you're looking right down the throats of the characters, there is no space between them and you; their perspective is your perspective..." (Fish, "'Les Miserables' and Irony"). Because the film keeps the audience in the world of the performer, irony would have been out of place for the movie, and the director made a wise decision to leave the tone out.

The themes in Les Miserables (Hooper 2012) would not have been conducive for irony. The main two characters represent competing themes: mercy and justice. Valjean continually shows mercy to those around him after his turning point at the priest's house, Javert's anthem is always justice- to give each what is his due. At the end of the film, the resolution between the two competing morals shows that it is better to forgive and forbear. While rated PG13 by the MPAA (IMDb.com), the lessons in the movie are actually very relevant for any age. Because of violence and some sexuality, the film is not advised for small children but the story and the themes teach important values.

Through the moving songs, the themes were really the highlight of the film. With the emotion of poetry, each line exuded what that character stood for and it displayed characters through a different light than prose script would have shown them. By using the tempo the singer or actor set on film, the organic notes accented the point of the story: mercy triumphs over justice. If irony had been written into the tone of the movie, it would have lessened the power of the words in the songs and detracted from that main theme. Each part of Les Miserables (Hooper 2012) highlights the main struggle between Javert and Valjean, making it a masterpiece. None of this would have been possible without the abilities of Tom Hooper as director and his vision for the film.

An excellent example of his expertise in directing, Les Miserables (Hooper 2012) shows Tom Hooper's innovation on screen, his wise judgment on the tone, and his masterful way of accenting and portraying the themes of the plot. Hooper's decisions to create the film, knowing it could incite some criticism, shows that he is a masterful director willing to look outside of the box for solutions in order to create something he can proudly defend to critics. Innovation in the techniques and tone, make Hooper's Les Miserables (Hooper 2012) worthy of the Oscars that it won.

Works Cited: Fish, Stanley."'Les Miserables' and Irony." Rev. of Les Miserables by Tom Hooper. The New York Times 28 Jan. 2013. Web. 21 Feb. 2014. Hooper, Tom, dir. Les Miserables. Universal Pictures, 2012. Film. "Les Miserables." The Internet Movie Data Base. IMDb.com, Inc, n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2014. Wioszcyna, Susan. "Tom Hooper 'confused' by criticism of 'Les Mis'". USA Today 13 Jan. 2013. Web. 21 Feb 2014. 