Most of these action legends in this film have been around for decades, and have been giving us fun times with their action films from the start. Sylvester Stallone gives us what us fans have wanted for many years, and that is a film with so many great legends in one film. Sure the film isn't perfect but, if you want over the top action like we got in the 80s and 90, then this is a must watch film for everyone. This is my review of The Expendables.

The film was written by Sylvester Stallone and Dave Callaham. While the story and the setup isn't anything Oscar worthy, it fits a film like this perfectly. The film never needed to be flashy in the story department, and they never tried to be. Stallone is well known for over the decades for his roles in the drama genre like with the Rocky films and even the first Rambo film, First Blood. However, his action movie history is long and it is stellar. Callaham recently helped write the newest American Godzilla film but, is more known to us action fans as a writer of this Expendables franchise. The story as I said is nothing perfect but, it does sell you nicely on some of the background and build up over the film. While I wouldn't say there are any classic lines like Stallone is use to delivering in his action films, there are still some funny lines that you will be remembering. The film does drag early in the film as maybe they take the story too deep but, when the action really gears up, it is non stop until the very end. So in this department Stallone and Callaham get a nice passable grade for their writing.

This film was also directed by Sylvester Stallone. While over the years some have complained about the use of the so called shaky cam, I personally never once thought the action was unwatchable. While Stallone isn't known as a great action director, he really takes this film into his own, and with plenty of amazing action scenes, he shows just how his past experience has payed off. I'm a huge fan of the 80s and 90s action movies, and so many of those movies had over the top pieces of action. Well if you are like me then you will not want to pass up this film. While the start of the film is slower, from about the middle to the very end there are so many over the top action pieces that you would have thought you put in an 80s action film. While those cheesy one liners aren't as big in this film, the action is just about on the same level. Now on to the actors, or should I say legends of past action films. Of course everyone knows Stallone stars in the film but, we also get to see Dolph Lundgren, Eric Roberts, Mickey Rourke, and Let Li. The film as features some up and coming action stars like Steve Austin, Jason Statham, Gary Daniels, and Terry Crews. While you can easily say Lundgren or even Stallone steal the show, I must personally say that Terry Crews steals the show with his amazing scene towards the end of the film. Once you watch the film you will instantly know what I am talking about. The stars of the film are amazing together, and it is a real joy to see so many greats in one film together. Stallone gets high praise for his directing this film and for being able to bring so many of our favorites into one film.

Brain Tyler composed the score for this film. He is the composer of all the Expendable films, and has even recently done work on bigger films such as Iron Man 3 and Thor: The Dark World. While I personally love those cheesy scores from composers of the 80s, this score from Tyler doesn't really hold up against those films, and frankly no one should have expected it to, as this is a completely different day and age with much different technology. While I can't say Tyler does a great job, his score is good enough for this amazing film.

Overall, everyone should see this film at some point. Sure it may not be as amazing as those 80s action films but, Stallone and company give a fantastic effort, and this film should not be ignored. Huge fans of the genre have already watched this film many times over, and get excited every time a new film is released. If you haven't started watching these films yet, now is the perfect time. In my opinion, you will not regret giving this film a chance.

8/10 