With more action movie heroes one could get in a typical action movie. How can it go wrong? Well, it didn't go wrong, but I didn't think it was great either. It was good nevertheless and you gotta respect the men in the movie for it. This movie isn't about drama, so the story can feel shorthanded and the plot kind of thin. But we are not concerned with story or plot (although it has a reasonable plot), because what we want from this movie is to see the action movie heroes we grew up with kick ass! Cheesy lines? Check. One-liners? Check. Predictable plot? Check. Men with big muscles who are more concerned with action than talk? Check. Lots of shooting and explosions? Check. Fight scenes? Check. Car chase? Check. Some good acting? Check. But in some ways I feel it also came kind of short and unoriginal. The characters were mostly the archetype anti-heroes with moral issues and a dysfunctional group, it is a bit like the dynamic you see from 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly'. But I definitely like this movie more than the 'The Avengers', since 'The Expendables' is a little more mature.

Sylvester Stallone has done a lot of action movies, often physically demanding and this movie was no exception. He suffered quite some injuries doing the stunts and in the age of 64! Most actors at that age wouldn't even do what he did. Doing scary things with Steve Austin. That I respect. Also Jet Li and Dolph Lundgren had some interesting fight scenes, although the shaky camera made it hard to see what was happening. But it was interesting to see the speedy Jet against the towering Dolph. Jason Statham showed off some skill too, as usual he looked fast and powerful. Randy Couture had some fight scenes too and although he had mostly bit parts he did not impress me any less. The guys were in pretty good shape considering their age. Terry Crews had a memorable scene, with that loud automatic shotgun of his where his character scared off Austin's character. That was funny. Mickey Rourke didn't have fight scenes but he added some delight in the scenes he had with Stallone and Statham. Anyway, I didn't like the CGI special-effects. It were kind of horrible and at times the excess of the movie was too much. But nevertheless I enjoyed the movie so I give it 7/10. 