Okay so to start out: I absolutely LOVE Anne Hathaway (my favorite princess), Hugh Jackman (He's hot AND has claws), Russell Crowe (I can't stop re-watching and crying to A Beautiful Mind), Amanda Sayfried (My favorite in Mean Girls and she's a really good singer), Eddie Redmayne (His voice, his accent, his looks... I actually watch movies simply because HE is in them *drool*) and Samantha Barks (She IS the best Eponine, ever).

And I absolutely LOVE Les Mis. So to summarize it: I was SOO looking forward to this movie. My favorite actors and actresses coming together in my favorite musical.. I really thought it couldn't be such a big disappointment as it was...

The Singing! No, no, no, no. Amanda Seyfried who I KNOW can sing sounds like a chirping bird, and it's unbearable. I know they decided to not record the songs in a studio and act according to them, but to sing while acting and that's a pretty nice idea. Kind of like how they do in musicals. The problem is just that these people aren't trained musical artists. They are are wonderful actors and actresses, BUT listening to them "sing" while acting was horrible.

Samantha Barks! She is the BEST Eponine according to me. She's an amazing singer and she's done a marvelous job in all the Les Mis productions EXCEPT for this. I don't know what happened, but the key in "On my own" was low and the movie's version of On my Own is the worst I've heard by far. I KNOW she's capable to do soooo much more and the only reason for why things went the way it did was because of the directors as far as I can figure out.

The Acting! The acting was good. Because that's what these actors and actresses are good at! But please, leave the singing to the trained!

All in all: 1. For future references: Cast musical actors and actresses to do the singing AND the acting is necessary. 2. Before making a new version of a musical, it's best to listen to the actual original songs and know how they are supposed to be performed (For example: On my Own is a cry in the void made by Eponine. She sings in hope to over voice her broken heart. This is a POWERFUL song. Something the directors, writers and musical department failed to realize . 3. I gave this film a 4 because of the acting, ALONE. Watching this movie on mute with subtitles is a very beautiful experience. And that's the only way this'll be an enjoyable movie for me. Looking at Eddie Redmayne and Hugh Jackman... *drool*

Watching this version of Les Mis was just as painful as to watch Nick Jonas taking on the role as Marius in the 25th Les Mis anniversary, and THAT is saying much. Re-do it, do it right. 