The movie create an atmosphere like dreaming with smoothly revolving camera angles. I came in knowing that Nash had schizophrenia because I unfortunately encountered a spoiler while going over reviews here, but I wasn't able to tell which part was delusional because of the hypnotizing tone of the movie. Genius Ron Howard somehow managed to filter all the flaws of filming itself to present a story that is whispering love and persistence in every shot, every line, every insignificant details in the picture. I just finished the movie 3 minutes ago, and all my goals and plans for today are washed away, I can't think about anything but my love for this film.

No need to add to many comments you probably have read here, but Russell Crowe and Jennifer Connelly rock.In social life, nerds and inconsiderate people like John Nash are the first combatants that are cleared out of the colosseum, but the stunning acting of Russell and Jennifer convinces the audience that the love between John Nash and Alicia Nash can't be explain by our shallow knowledge about falling in love. They are above the level of attractive girls falling for attractive boys, their nature, or something deeper, is drawing them closer and closer to form a romance that touch the world with its purity and depth. Alicia didn't marry John for money, safety or his appearance, because John here looks like a wrinkled bear. Alicia loved him because he was where she belonged, and the first appearance of Alicia punched the concept in me that she knew it as soon as she saw him, because she was staring at him with sparkling beauty. It was love at first sight.

The settings were also cool, the scene where Alicia cracked open the door of John's office and the cottage near their house is mind-blowing. The scene of numbers glowing and floating out of screens in the Pentagon and from the magazines lying on the floor was also a genius representation of intelligence, exceeding the BBC drama Sherlock Holmes. It actually makes no sense because they are just random clippings of random magazines, but it also force the audience into believing there are some secret messages embodied in these random paragraphs because we are seeing this from a genius' perspective, it's adjusted to a level of intelligence beyond ours. But after seeing the abandoned building from Alicia's eyes, who was a sign of sanity, in which the windows that shadows were escaping and dogs are barking, were sealed with cement. The pile of envelops tell both Nash and us, that the whole conspiracy thing isn't real, it's as ridiculous as the 911 being plotted by the US government or the world tricking you into believing that you have a nose.

The music is most effective tool the movie uses to mark out the climaxes and the turning points. James Horner was a gift from the god, I cried when he was taken away 2 months earlier. All the music in here is exciting, but it was exciting mixed with sadness, sense of shock, sense of hope or sense of pride. It always grabbed the audience's attention like a mighty hand, and squeezed their heart until they choke with pain. I think Ron Howard should've buy Horner a drink after the Oscar ceremony.

All the Oscar-winning movies perfectly explain something about humanity, and form a explanation in the audience's heart that can't be explained by the simple word "love" or "friendship" or "support", but we find ourselves somehow different when we walk out of the movie theaters half dreaming half awake while mumbling something like "It's hell of a movie."I will think of John Nash when I'm walking my dogs in my 80s, I'll think of him when I am unemployed and wandering on the street, I will think of him when I'm kissing my boyfriend.

Image of John writing on the windows in his dorm is still flashing through my mind.

Image of Alicia holding the baby to her chest with terror is still flashing though my mind.

Image of the little girl opening up her arms is still flashing though my mind.

Image of the Charles pushing the table down the window is still flashing through my mind.

Image of the paper about Game Theory is still flashing through my mind.

Image of old Alicia smiling with tear in Noble Prize ceremony stabbed my heart.

"You are the only reason I am, you are all my reasons."

"Thank you." 