I scored a 7 out of 10. I watched on DVD, so I saw the entire unedited movie. I watched again just now on television.

Overall, excellent acting.

In all three movies, the idea is explored that both the physical "real" world and the Matrix worlds have deterministic rules but both worlds have beings with consciousnesses inhabiting those worlds. Hence, those consciousnesses, which have free will, contradict the deterministic rules. The philosophical concept added to the original and "Reloaded" in "Revolutions" is the concept of Neo's mind separating from his body in the real world, since, if it can happen in the Matrix, why not in the real world? After all, both worlds are electromagnetic stimulation of the senses.

However, even after having seen all three movies in order, I still do not understand what exactly the program Smith does when it occupies some other Matrix inhabitant's matrix-constructed body. Does that kill (I assume) the person in the real world?

I also like the concept of the Matrix, Agent Smith more specifically, affecting or infiltrating the mind of a person in the real world. This concept was initiated in "Reloaded" and developed in "Revolutions".

There are other very small plot points that were not made clear, in "Reloaded" and in "Revolutions", which I really wished had been made clear by the end of the trilogy. Specifically, did Zion not have an EMP weapon to disable the sentinels during the big underground battle scene? Why did they have to wait for the Nebakenezzer to arrive to set off the EMP?

However, my BIGGEST disappointment with this movie is that it felt completely unresolved. I expected and wanted to see all the individuals unplugged from the Matrix. The architect and oracle in the coda of the movie try to explain it away by saying they'll unplug those who want to be unplugged and questioning how long the peace will last. Well, obviously, peace will not last long as long as people are still plugged into the Matrix against their full knowledge and will.

Otherwise, plot makes sense in "Revolutions". It moves along at an appropriate pace. I don't want to fault the movie too much, given the tension and excitement it creates. I admit that I felt slightly better about it upon a second viewing. But, I still do not understand why the biggest plot hole - immediate unplugging of all people - was not resolved at the end of the trilogy. 