I sat down to watch 'A Beautiful Mind' after hearing how good it was from a friend, and not knowing much else about it besides Russell Crowe's performance being really good, and it definitely is.

All of Crowe's tics and mannerisms are wildly different to anything he's done before or since, playing a brilliant but shy, socially awkward mathematician. He shows great range doing a role like this, but the movie surrounding it has its share of flaws.

The pacing is messy, with the opening scene in college where John Nash develops a new concept for Governing Dynamics being very short and fast - Crowe's character goes through all the motions in about 15 minutes - excitement, self-doubt, anger, frustration; and then after publishing his original idea the movie goes by some years to his working at the pentagon.

The middle section plays out like a thriller, with John being employed by William Parcher (Ed Harris) to decipher magazine and newspaper articles to find hidden messages and stop a soviet plot.

I liked the love story between John Nash and one if his students (played by Jennifer Connelly), but in the third act when it's revealed that he has schizophrenia, the movie's treatment of it seems a bit simplistic and shallow, imagining things as realistic, rather than more distorted and frightening. His paranoia is shown through character interaction and facial expression, rather than visually, which I think was done on purpose as a plot device to lead viewers on into thinking what he sees is real (until his being detained in a mental hospital, that is).

The domestic scenes that follow his release seem to drag on for a long time and lack real emotional weight for me, coming off as flat and a bit boring. The movie wants me to feel really sad, with its emotionally manipulative score, but I felt it was lacking overall.

The movie picks up again for the ending, when he learns to deal with his illness by ignoring the people he imagines (which I'm not sure is entirely true) and becoming a professor in the 1970s, and then his winning the Nobel Peace Prize in the 1990s (which features a nice acceptance speech that made me a bit emotional, even if it was sentimental somewhat).

Overall, the movie is worth watching for the performances alone, but regarding its portrayal of the subject of mental illness, the effect it has on other people you know and its treatment, it could have been handled much better than it was. 