Those people who are saying worst movie, bad movie, 1 star movie etc are the trolls who want to buck the trend or want to stand out, but there are getting some many trolls who just want to start an argument in the forums they just look stupid now and it is getting very old.

Avatar is amazing, yes it is a science fiction fantasy movie so the stories usually are not that complicated and it is very hard to come up with an original story. You can pretty much link nearly every movie in one way or another if you are that anal about it.

What this movie is is visually stunning like nothing you have ever seen before, using ground breaking effects that had never been used before at the time and not many have surpassed it's technology since apart from maybe Tron: Legacy (2010) special effects.

Yes this movie is top grossing movie but then again ticket prices are still rising and even with inflation adjustments it is still well in the list of top movies ever. You need to compare this movies success with movie that wee around at the same time and the movies since and you will see none has come even close to the success this has had, so it is clearly an awesome and very successful movie.

Word gets around quickly when a movie is not up to expectations or is bad and people stay away from the cinema but they kept going and going with this one and after you have watched a movie like this and you can't get it out of your head, you want to tell everyone about it and you want everyone to see it, then you know it has had a big impact on you in a very good way.

I was totally engrossed in this, is is so beautiful and gorgeous to watch, the Na'vi's and Avatars look superb, Pandora looked so beautiful and i totally fell in love with Neytiri even though she is blue and 10 foot tall lol, she is absolutely gorgeous.

I can't wait for the prequel and the 2 sequels, i heard James Cameron has been waiting for the special effect technology to advance to be able to do what he has planned, so it is going to be amazing. Avatar's story is simple enough for the younger viewer to enjoy and is enough to hold the attention for adults too.

Anyway, i am not going to tell you the story of the movie as it has been told many times, i just wanted to say how ridiculous the haters are just hating for the sake of it and to let people know, though those with half a brain will already know that this is an amazing movie and of all the thousands and thousands of movies i have seen only a dozen have i rated a full 10 out of 10 and this is one of them and sits firmly in my top 10 best movies of all time. 