Very rarely does a film come along like this one. I remember seeing it on the BBC. As a young boy, at the time I liked Stallone and Arnie action stuff.. This was so far away from my "zone" that it was ridiculous. I happened to catch it right at the start and just sat down to watch.

The voice of Salieri immediately spoke to me. This film in a way, is about the gradation of talent; one man who is gifted above all others ( or so he thinks) and is humble and grateful to god for his gifts, is suddenly brought to the realization that there are a few people, so far above him in talent, that he cannot even understand their method or genius. With humility he thinks "this genius Mozart must too, be a humble, hard working man who has striven greatly for this level of talent to manifest. Of course Salieri is soon disabused of this fact. Mozart like most true geniuses creates so easily and naturally that he in a way is almost contemptuous of the toil which others must endure, to produce works which pale in comparison with his least trifle.

The film is told in flashback by Salieri at the end of his life, confined in a madhouse, confiding to a young priest. He thinks that his actions lead Mozart to his death and is both proud and tormented by this. He is aware that Mozart is a "true" genius. Salieri has been flattered all his life with this word and he too, realizes that his great gift is the ability to discern the real thing when it is before him. He both loves and hates Mozart, as he both loves and hates himself , for being good but not great, but good enough to know good from great and being on the wrong side of the divide.

This film is filled by amazing actors and every small role is memorable and brings something to it. I don't wish to cheapen the film by giving a synopsis of the plot, but I will say this - you will rarely spend a more splendid, enlightening and fulfilling couple of hours. You will go away thinking about classical music and the idea of genius and envy and you will maybe even hum the strains of Don Giovanni.. who can say fairer than that? 