In 29 September 2015, I wrote a review about the Terminator Genysis. Interestingly, I can pretty much copy and paste that review on this movie.

I admit, I went to see Clash of the Titans for Sam Worthington, Medusa and Kraken. I saw the original movie but not attached to it. Now I found out, I was the target audience, so all I can get are watching Sam Worthington, Medusa and Kraken, NOTHING ELSE: the Hollywood suits think audience are dumb enough to accept a script below standard as long as there are big budgets on big stars, bigger props and visual effects.

The script in T5 is lame, at least the characters' actions have a logic and reasons. After watching the Clash of the Titans in 2010, I was baffled at that time:

Wow, Zeus is a rapist by pretending the victim's husband. He sent the thunder to punish the angry husband, but did nothing when the poor woman and baby Perseus fell into the sea. When Perseus grew up, Zeus just showed up and said, "Hi, I am you dad, I have superpower, despite what I did to your mother, even I did nothing to raise you and never contact you before, worship me, son!" Way to go, dad!!

Perseus and Andromeda are basically strangers to each other throughout the whole movie. Why the first time she met him, knowing nothing about that humble fisherman at the end of the hall, went forward to give him a drink with sympathy? Have they really known each other then? Nope, there is no connection, bonding, or any relationship between the hero and the princess, the whole adventure of Perseus turned a puppet show without necessity and human emotions. To take a revenge on Hades is neither important nor exciting to audience, alright?

Why the team went on the trip without horses? How far could they go on foot in ten days? Even a child can tell that is unrealistic and not practical. Why the team so accepted the existence of Io? She showed up from nowhere but none of the soldiers questioned why a hot woman was following them, and none of them has reaction to her beauty, those soldiers were made of paper or cardboard?

Why the two hunters joined the trip? Why Draco was mean to Perseus in the beginning, and later he suddenly turned so kind to teach Perseus sword fighting? Why the big scorpions are so lethal and suddenly turned to be vehicles? Why the creature made of wood came to help them? Why Calibos in his final scene changed his attitude towards Perseus? Why none of the soldiers in the palace protect Andromeda and let her kidnap by the mobs easily? Why Andromeda in her final scene knew her father was dead?

Motivations, interactions and emotions of characters, mostly are unconvincing and blank due to the lack of logic and reasons in the script, which made the movie fell into pieces of fake and crap.

The worse is, the movie made enough box office despite of bad reviews, so the studio made the worse sequel, the Wrath of Titans; Wow, they do think audiences are too dumb to find out the script they approved, is hollow and bad!

Alongside with T5, Pompeii, the Legend of Hercules, it proves that some Hollywood suits take movie making merely a business and figures on spreadsheets. 