Ron Howard's "A Beautiful Mind" is an adaptation of the Pulitzer Prize-nominated biography of American mathematician John Nash. Beginning at Princeton University in the late 1940's, the movie focuses on his early contributions to economic theory and his subsequent, prolonged struggle with mental illness.

As is often the case with biographical films, the script is fairly loosely based on the actual events. Some may take exception to this but I feel that the changes serve a valid dramatic purpose. Additionally, the means of portraying Nash's mental state required some artistic license. Again, I feel that this is handled effectively, though who really knows if it's particularly reflective of Nash's actual experiences?

In any case, the story is an involving one that spans many years. The factual basis provided an intriguing foundation for screenwriter Akiva Goldsman to construct a script that puts the viewers in Nash's shoes. The paranoid atmosphere of 1950's America supplies an ideal backdrop for Nash's unravelling sanity while the aftermath is just as interesting. It should be noted that Goldsman was rewarded with an Oscar for his efforts.

Of course, much of the credit for bringing Nash to life must go to Russell Crowe. Fresh off his Oscar win for "Gladiator", Crowe found himself nominated for an Oscar for the third year in a row, this time for perhaps the best performance of his career. He wasn't on his own, though. The lovely & talented Jennifer Connelly took home an Oscar for her portrayal of Nash's devoted wife. The supporting cast wasn't bad either, featuring Ed Harris & Paul Bettany in memorable roles along with the likes of Judd Hirsch, Christopher Plummer & Adam Goldberg.

Ron Howard's direction is solid, as usual, though I'm not convinced that he deserved to win the Oscar that year over some very tough competition. Nevertheless, "A Beautiful Mind" is a well directed film, both visually and performance-wise. The Oscar-nominated score by James Horner is also notable, as is the Oscar-nominated makeup that convincingly aged Crowe & others over the course of decades.

All in all, "A Beautiful Mind" is an effective film that ranks as one of Ron Howard's best in a career studded with several crowd-pleasers. Arguments could certainly be made for other films as being more deserving of 2001's Best Picture Oscar but the movie was by no means undeserving. Just don't go into it expecting stringent adherence to the facts. 