It's only right to say that I have not had the privilege of watching the Broadway play, of reading the novel by Victor Hugo, and of watching the 1998 movie version. Still, let me say this:

I loved it. So very much.

What should first be acknowledged of course is the source material. Victor Hugo is unquestionably a masterful writer to have written such a compelling tale of love, sacrifice, redemption, and revolution.

How much better can it get?

We were supposed to watch this adaptation in class, due to our teacher's absence. However, she did not leave a copy, and instead, opted to have us answer a few questions in our book, and a chart concerning the character traits of Jean Valjean over the years. And yet, it came to me that I was writing about a character I knew nothing about other than what little was spoonfed to us from our English textbook - who exactly was Jean Valjean? Police Inspector Javert? Fantine? What message did the author want to convey upon writing about a common man in 17th century Paris?

To be honest, this is my third attempt in watching this adaptation of Les Miserables (two of which were when I was about a year younger than I am now - and both failed attempts, at that). Aside from my English class, I needed stress relief from other projects.

I do not regret picking this up again. And I never will.

This adaptation was such a pleasure to watch as an introduction to one of the greatest works in literature, a literal classic. It succeeds in evoking the emotion needed to fully enjoy Victor Hugo's maelstrom: it succeeds in showing the raw cruelty of those impoverished times. It succeeds in making you grit your teeth because life is so, so unfair, and there are many who suffer because of it.

Those who have read the novel have stated that this is the more emotional version, by far, when compared to the 1998 version, because it truly gets the characters' intentions across (and apparently, the 1998 version strays from the characters of the source material). If these are the characters in their true forms - then I can ask for nothing more, because these characters took my breath away. Jean Valjean's conflict with the past that continuously haunts him and the man that he has become, Cosette's curiosity and love for her father (and vice versa), Marius' devotion to his cause and what he felt for all that he lost because of it, Fantine's living hell, Eponine's unrequited love and selflessness, and Inspector Javert's conflict regarding justice and mercy.

I found myself so immersed into the story, because it was one that gradually consumed me in heart and mind. What was this irony, wherein only death would put an end to Jean Valjean's suffering, offering him mercy in times when many else started walking into the light, all the fruit of his efforts to love and to repent and to begin anew? It was clear that he was no longer the man that he used to be, yet he was driven to an end that he did not deserve because people branded him for what he HAD done (and even then, it was to feed his sister's seven children!). I found myself asking what Javert must have asked himself, looking down at the world he would soon part with. ("Look down, look down," the voices sung.) Was justice a truth, or an ideal pursued blindly? Could all things be encompassed by the law? Questioning all he believed, he too, ended his life.

It was all very, very emotional. The bent backs of the slaves, Jean Valjean's turmoil. ("Who am I?") Fantine, losing what little she had, reaching out for Cosette as she lay dying, no longer living after being assured that the ONLY thing she lived for was in good hands. Eponine, dying in the arms of the only man she ever loved, asking nothing more than to be glanced at by him. To be his heaven, and his only one. Gavroche, walking towards the soldiers, believing in what they fought for, then reaching his untimely end. Enjolras, a brave soul that died for his countrymen and a good friend to all he knew. Marius, waking up to the aftermath, finding that all his friends he had laughed with were gone. Cosette telling him that they would never be apart, and that he still had her. Marius, telling Cosette that they would never be apart during Jean Valjean's dying moments - Jean Valjean's last moments which were spent thinking about Cosette, and only Cosette (thus, Fantine's appearance near the end).

It was all very tragic, but at the same time hopeful. Les Miserables will no doubt always hold a special place in my heart. A tale of kindness repaid with kindness, bravery and strength, and most importantly, light in a time of darkness, all coupled with stellar performances and beautiful cinematography in this splendid adaptation of this timeless classic. 