The stunning conclusion to the Wachowski brothers "Matrix" trilogy comes to life. Highly controversial at it's release, the film has since never quite redeemed itself in eyes of the fans of the series. As a side note, this film might receive better reception as time goes on, much like "Alien 3" although this is simply speculation.

The film begins almost the second its predecessor ended, Neo is unconscious, with the he's-got-to-be-up-to-no-good Bane lying right beside him. The film almost immediately throws itself back into the computer world with the revelation that the Morovingian isn't quite done with our leather-clad heroes yet.

One of the most interesting aspects of the film is the extended focus on the people of Zion. It frequently breaks away from the main characters to focus on the less developed ones which were introduced in the previous movie. While the ominous buzzing of the machines comes ever closer, the people of Zion prepare for what they know will be their final battle. I particularly liked the development of Kid, a character only briefly touched upon in "Reloaded" gets a nice portion of the spotlight while defending Zion.

While humans and machines clash, Morpheus, Niobe and their crew come to aid in the battle at their home. Niobe's character get's some well deserved development during this period, as her and Morpheus's stories come full circle.

One of the films only weaknesses is the lack of focus on Neo and Trinity, who are completely absent for a large portion of the film. Their characters never really undergo any development, with the exception of an extremely powerful sequence toward the end.

The reason that Revolutions, in my mind, was a success was because of the ending. The Wachowski brothers don't waste time showing what occurs afterwards, they simply end the story, telling it the way they wanted to tell it. This is one of the things I really like about the brothers, they don't sell out on their vision and let the film-making norms taking over their story. They tell their story, not the story that the audience EXPECTS or WANTS to see, but the story THEY want to tell, which is what film-making is really about.

If you are a die-hard fan of the Matrix or just a person who has a tendency to like deeply misunderstood movies, watch this. 