 Amadeus Amadeus is a biography of Mozart as told by Antonio Salieri. It shows the rise and fall of Mozart brought about by external factors and his own. It showcases the life of not just Mozart but also of Salieri. The movie starts in the present with out of control bleeding Salieri and his confession of having murdered Mozart. It is a flashback of his time and his journey with Mozart. Salieri is jealous yet almost reverent of Mozart. It depicts his love for music but lack of his geniuses. Mozart on the other hand is irreverent and lewd but a genius from whom music flows as if God himself speaks through him. The movie shows the trials and tribulations of Salieri to out do Mozart, at the same time the dedication and frivolity of Mozart. His obsession to rise above him yet to seek his approval leads him to actions with far greater impact. The movie though titled on Mozart, is of Salieri and how Mozart played a very crucial part in his life. Amadeus in Latin means "Loved by God" and is an apt title for the movie. Mozart as the man of god is a common theme of this film. Many a times Salieri makes this comparison and begrudges it. F. Murray Abraham as Salieri and Tom Hulce as Mozart are brilliant. They provide life to larger than life characters. The hatred, the reverence, the desire to share that one moment of fame are emoted effortlessly by Abraham. The tinkle laughter and boyishness of Mozart as played by Hulce, remains with you. Every emotion feels realistic and though set in time long before the present, where the styles of expression were a lot different, the movie manages to convey itself flawlessly. The supporting cast is brilliant with its effort. The costumes are grand and the sets are lavish. The depiction is interspersed by the music of the operas. The direction is fast paced and doesn't loose the audiences at any step. The film is vibrant yet dark. It carries with it deep sadness of the human emotions, But also celebrates life through the language of music. 