Avatar was released in 2009. It used the greatest special effects of its time to display a survival story. A disabled marine chose to take his dead brother's place on a mission to Pandora, a distant universe. Once there, he finds out about a plot to kill the native people to utilize their resources. The marine, Jack Sully, tries to gain the trust of the Na'vi natives in order to gain information about their people. He then tells this information to the commander to find the Na'vi's weaknesses. Jack soon falls in love with a native princess and learns the Na'vi's ways. He realizes what his mission will do to these people and their lives. Jack decides to help them fight against the humans who have come to their universe. James Cameron, the director, spend over 10 years perfecting the special effects of Avatar using CGI. There are several great examples of this through this film. The best example is when the princess is teaching Jack how to fly the mountain banshees. The CGI created a giant world of floating islands of mountains where the banshees lived. It took almost two years for the banshees alone to be made. I gave this movie such high ratings because of the special effects used throughout the film. The theme of this film is survival. Not only survival of the Na'vi people, but also the survival of nature through the advancement of humanity. The Na'vi people consider nature to be their lifeblood. It is the center of the universe and they have learned to live around nature without destroying it. The threat of the humans destroying their lifeblood is why the Na'vi fight so hard. The colors of this film were incredible. Bright blues, yellow and reds show great emphasis on the theme. These colors were inspired by nature. The forests were inspired by areas of China and Venezuela. Avatar showcases bio luminescence with the plants in the forest. Also, the costumes in Avatar were incredible. All the character's costumes were hand made. This seems like a waste of time on a mostly CGI movie, but every character, including the Na'vi, had costumes made for them. The Na'vi's costumes were individualized to each one, which showed the nature of their people. This film was a great accomplishment within the special effects film. The technology used to make Avatar had not existed before. The team needed to accomplish this was massive and many of them worked to discover new ways of shooting this kind of movie. 