The story line of this movie starts off with a baby that is sent a float in a casket with his deceased mother. The baby boy was found by poor fisherman that raised him as one of his own naming him Perseus. Perseus, not knowing that he was destined for great things was thrown into greatness avenging the death of his foster parents. Throughout his childhood Perseus discovers powers and an indescribable calling that he cannot explain.

Perseus rages a war with the Gods as the human's rebel against the wishes of the Gods. The death of Perseus foster parents fuels his hated toward the Gods. The scene of the Perseus's family small fishing boat looking upon an enormous statue of Zeus being tore down by the humans, strikes the hearts of Perseus family. The cracking of the statue, the thunder of Hades voice, Hades ghostly image that displayed nearly taking the whole screen let you feel the terror that was getting ready to unfold.

The plot of this story is the people of Argos stop preying to the Gods. This angers the Gods especially Hades. Hades persuaded Zeus to empower him to convince the people of Argos to start praying again through the death of their most beautiful princess. The dilemma Hades put the people of Argos was that they needed to kill their princess or he would release the Kraken. The Kraken is the deadliest beast known to man destroying cities with a single breath.

Perseus charged with his hated toward the Gods leads a small team of Argos soldiers to defeat the Kraken. His travels will let you discover the underworld of Argos, through the deserted waste lands filled with mysteries to the layer of Medusa.

The lighting of this film is a little dark; however it gives the appearance that this film was to take place in medieval times. The acting was par at best, you can really tell that these actors were young and the supporting acting did not help in this manner. The dialect in this movie had a little too much modern day slang for a medieval based movie. I did enjoy the theme of this film and I am looking forward to how Perseus grows in his new found Demi-God status. 