Spoilers Ahead:

Let's get the many flaws out of the way: Jar Jar Binks, I swear, the most irritating character ever rendered he is like water torture. At the time, there was an early website entitled Jar Jar Must Die. I concur, he does great damage to the movie. In Lucas' defense, the darkness of Darth Maul, who truly made Dooku look like a girl scout, is why he is trying to balance like he did in Jedi. Also, The wooden acting which reaches the nadir with Shmi. There are good touches here, Neeson's Qui Gon makes you wish they hadn't killed him off so early in the prequels. Watto is an effective character that is well drawn and entertaining. I own this movie for the best light-saber duel found in any Star Wars movie. SPOILER: Fans need to realize how groundbreaking it was for a Jedi to be killed so brutally on film. When I saw this there was a loud gasp, yes, Kenobi was killed in New Hope but he vanished into the Force mystically. Qui Gon is not quite so fortunate, the brutality of the duel with many nasty kicks and punches, interspersed with Obi Wan being thrown off of a landing, please, compare this with any of the duels in the originals? Even the duels in Clones or Sith are nothing on this level for speed and well done fighting. I like the Qui Gon part of the duel but the one between Kenobi and Maul is why I own this. It fills in the legend that was Kenobi, spoken of in New Hope, but when we meet him then he is an old geezer.

Darth Maul holds the movie together for those of us who like it. Admittedly, it is far from the best Sith, but also commensurately above the,"I am in pain, please tell me if you are suffering also?" Yes, Anakin we are in great pain but not from your love for Padme. There is this sense of foreboding about Anakin that is rendered well. My favorite scene is where Shmi is looking at her boy from a distance with a look of fear. The foreshadowing of the monster with the Jedi Council picking up right away there is something quite dangerous about this innocuous looking little boy. Williams' score is the best of the three by a country mile with the classic Duel Of The Fates. The music with the best duel of all six movies, for me, redeems its many deficiencies. Lloyd does a capable job, for one so young, of a sinister little boy with a over-consuming temper, a harbinger of what is to come. What always killed these prequel movies is that we already knew the ending before even viewing the movies. Also, the original had become a thing of cinematic legend that it was impossible to live up to. The casting in the original, besides Ford / Guiness, was not a thing of legend. Ever seen Hamill in other movies? Carrie Fisher? Yes, detractors, Christenson was chosen for his physical resemblance to Vader but his acting was always the weak point of this trilogy.

Portman is much better but Lucas shows you that he always was renowned for getting bad performances out of good actors. If you going to buy these, buy Sith first then this one and Clones last. I saw this four times, Clones twice and Sith three times, I won't lie to you, I often got up for popcorn during the Naboo Invasion part. It is not a short duel, Lucas does what he did in Jedi, he has three attacks all going at once. If you want to confirm the direction is bad look at Samuel Jackson, a great actor. Notice how wooden he is here? The original cast complained about Lucas doing one or two takes, it always shows. Yet, for all of its flaws, the movie towers over Clones with an exciting pod race and the best of the light-saber duels. Maul is truly creepy, there is still a move afoot to have him back somehow. Qui Gon's defiance of the Council is always adumbrated as what led to his fatal overconfidence both in his abilities and his brainless faith in Anakin being benign and not malignant. When you watch it over, Lucas has Shmi often glancing with deep worry at Anakin. Yes, fellow critics, wooden acting, Jar Jar and some truly bad casting choices. For all of its failings, I watch this duel over and over. It is simply the most intense, brutal and violent of any of the light-saber battles. Even if you get bored, trust me, chapter skip to the final Darth Maul showdown, it is worth owning. Overall, A Mixed Review. Q.E.D. 