Amadeus. A twisted story of the prodigy and genius Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, the most brilliant composer of all time who according to this film was a young rock star who somehow wrote boozed up masterpieces all day while dealing with a persistent fever.

Set in the late 1700s, Amadeus is a classical biopic directed by Milos Forman who seems to have given the musical genius some annoying habits like an ugly boring wife and a ridiculous laugh that he insists on delivering time after time.

Mozart's supposed secret rival, Antonio Salieri, a sleazy jealous wog, who years later finds himself in an insane asylum on a confessing bender to a priest tells the story of Mozart with help from a harmonious soundtrack.

This movie won Oscars, eight of them, so it can be a bit boring. This 1984 cast has reserved Mozart for most annoying character who is aptly played by Tom Dulce. The god crazy rival, Salieri, whom begins the movie by trying to kill himself is fine tuned by F. Murray Abraham.

God is referenced repeatedly (even the title) and is the motive behind the frustrated Salieri. Beginning his confession from youth, Antonio Salieri describes his love of god/music and hate of Mozart the tramp leading to his downfall, the confession bender.

The opera and classical performances scattered within this film are thoroughly enjoyable and authentic being filmed in the original theatre Mozart performed them in Prague. Important to note, the film isn't historically accurate though which is great for catching douche bags at parties as a conversation trap.

The extras of the eighties deserve extra credit for their ability to outperform their contemporary counterparts (and most actors of the eighties) in something that should be straightforward, but never is now. No characters demand more screen time than the tormentor and tormented which the story revolves around.

As the film progresses and Mozart's talent, Salieri's character evolves from praising god to hating him whilst using everything in his power to secretly ruin his rival. As Wolfgang degenerates into a sickly mess he leaves his house less frequently providing...

The most horrific scenes of the film. They always occur when anyone attempts to contact Mozart via knocking on his door. The repeating drone of the door being loudly hit shatters what precious mood you've managed to absorb from the costumed lineup.

The failure of Salieri's plan is evident with his decayed elderly form juxtaposed regularly with his retelling. Well worth watching if you have any respect or passion for music.

Everything in moderation, even god. I give this two and a half joints.

By Travis Lipshus for more reviews goto http://travislipshus.blogspot.com.au/ 