The final film in the MATRIX trilogy and fans can breathe a sigh of release; (mostly) gone is the endless technobabble and philosophising of the middle film in the series, instead replaced by full scale action and resolution to the problems seen in the previous two films. This movie feels fresh and exciting because it offers us things previously unseen in the films. For the most part, this takes place in the "real" world, with only infrequent exertions into the computer-controlled fantasy world itself. It feels a lot stronger, gritter and harder than before because there is strong violence here, shocking bloodshed, and people really do die this time around. In many ways this makes it feel like more of an adult movie. Admittedly, things do start off a little strained. Although there is some good suspense and questioning in an isolated subway station, the action doesn't pick up until we get to a major gun battle in an S&M club.

This battle is actually a little disappointing, although it is good to see the character Seraph return to the screen. Then we're re-introduced to the slimy French villain from THE MATRIX RELOADED, and his stunningly buxom wife played by Monica Bellucci (no complaints here). Yet the suspense fizzles instead of crackles, and the most entertainment here is to be had from the performance of the Train Man (played by Bruce Spence, the crazy chopper pilot from MAD MAX 2). It's certainly underwhelming, and lots more pointless inactivity doesn't bode well for the rest of the film. Then things suddenly start happening - it begins with the stabbing of a nurse and ends with Neo fulfilling his destiny. There are shocks, genuine surprises, and a fantastically-depicted war between humans and machines. It involves people walking around in ALIENS-style power robots and shooting machine guns at thousands of those pesky silver fish-like flying robots and it certainly does not disappoint in terms of ferocity, impact, and absolutely stunning special effects work.

Things culminate in a scary, powerful finale involving Neo returning to the (now polluted) Matrix world to take on Agent Smith one last time. A fantastic and fitting conclusion to the lengthy battles in the earlier films, this strives to top them all. I loved the battle but bear in mind the kung fu is minimal compared to before. Performances are all assuredly good, with characters having by now settled into their parts, with top recommendations going to Hugo Weaving whose character of Agent Smith has major screen presence and makes for a threatening, frightening villain unlike last time. Basically I loved this movie and would be happy to re-watch it when the chance arrives. All three films are different, and very good indeed, so go check them out if you haven't done so already. 