CLASH OF THE TITANS

The original is a complete classic... so when I heard they were remaking it I had my doubts. I went to the cinema to see it because the trailer actually looked quite good... and I loved it. I finally got it on DVD and decided to watch it again today... did I like it as much the second time around?

The movie is about mortal people turning on the immortal god Zeus, so when Zeus sends his brother down to the planet to teach the humans a lesson in respect and get them to prey to Zeus again. Zeus' brother, Hades, goes and releases the Kraken. A huge monster that only knows how to destroy everything in its path. The only man who can stop all this destruction is Perseus... the son of Zeus.

This remake is a complete success in my mind. It has everything I wanted from the original. The thing I love about the original version was the really bad effects... for their time they are amazing. But I would not want to change them. The effects in this version are up to date, but there are moments where you can clearly see it is computer generated.

I loved the giant scorpions and I loved the Kraken, but my favourite characters from this story is Medusa. They all looked amazing, but Medusa was awesome! I loved the snake hair and the face when she stares at people is really spooky.

The movie stars Sam Worthington, Liam Neeson, Ralph Fiennes, Jason Flemyng, Gemma Arterton & Mads Mikkelsen. Everyone dies a great job. Especially Liam Neeson. I am not really a Liam Neeson fan, but since he has started making action film I am starting to like him a lot more.

The film is full of action from beginning to end. And the action is full on. I really like the fantasy world that this film is set in.

Finally, I was super impressed to the little nod to the original version when Perseus pulls out the original mechanical owl and asks what it is. Perfect!

Is is exciting and a lot of fun to watch... and even though it is missing the feel of the original film, it really is a remake that I like.

I will give this film 7 out of 10.

"There is a God in you. Be sure to bring it. End of lesson."