Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace is a movie I'm apprehensive to review; perhaps more than any other film ever. I only review movies if I feel I have something to interesting and unique to say. What unique view point to do I have to give to the Star Wars prequels? - possibly the three most heavily critiqued films ever. I decided to watch all three prequels again (and hopefully for the last time) in order to get a fresh perspective on them. I believe I may have some unique points of view to offer; plus I am among the populace who is addicted to discussing every aspect of George Lucas' pop culture behemoth.

Don't be too surprised when I tell you I hate the prequels - big shocker right? However The Phantom Menace is the prequel I dislike the least. The major aspect I find The Phantom Menace does has going for it over the other two prequels are the aesthetics. It comes the closet to resembling the original trilogy, if still incredibly far off. The Phantom Menace was shot on film and does feature on location filming and even some practical effects here and there, so the whole thing doesn't come of looking like a video game as Episodes II and III did. There is a lot of eye candy to behold, such as the locations such as the Palace of Caserta in Italy (why do you want to film everything on a green screen when beautiful places like this exist in the world?), while the costume design - not something I would normally comment on - is very pleasing to the eyes. The only two scenes in The Phantom Menace which has a little bit of that excitement that I get watching the original trilogy are the pod race and final lightsaber duel between Obi-Wan, Qui-Gon and Darth Maul; an impressive display of acrobatics and is it's not choreographed within an inch of its life like the duels in Episodes II and III. But even these few aspects of the film I do enjoy are ultimately superficial as there is no internal conflict nor am I emotional invested.

What surprised me watching The Phantom Menace for the first time in a decade was just how incredibly frustrated I got. I've seen and read more reviews of this film over the years, analysing it to death and mocking every aspect of it. Watching the film again I expected to have reactions of "yeah it sucks, what else is new", but sitting down and watching the entire thing my brain became so numb from the never ending monotone exposition. I'm not even that keen on the John Williams score; it's not bad by any means - far from it - but it feels too dark and moody for a Star Wars movie. As fine a piece of music as Duel of the Fates is, those booming choirs feel out of place for Star Wars. In regards to the most hated fictional character of all time, I don't think Jar Jar is the absolute worst thing ever, I can at least tolerate him (if there's any character in the prequel trilogy that bothers me for how ridiculous they are: its General Grievous). Plus at least he's responsible for the only line from this film I like; "The ability to talk does not you intelligent".

All three prequels lack the space western elements of the original trilogy, and I recall a comment that George Lucas intended The Phantom Menace to play out like a costume drama. Perhaps it's own such a direction could have worked if you know, the execution wasn't total pants. I can see what Lucas was perhaps going for in the story in trying to portray the fall of a democracy; the idea of radicals using political unrest as a means of coming to power - such as the Nazis using the turmoil caused by the great depression to amass power. Perhaps the empire isn't such a bad thing, it appears under their command the universe became a more interesting place. As someone who is interested in the relationship people have with popular culture, I find the most interesting aspect of The Phantom Menace is nothing in the film itself but rather its place in history. Think about it, the most anticipated movie of all time and it was a colossal let down, and this occurring during the early days of the internet. What would the world of geekdom be like if The Phantom Menace actually lived up to expectations? Would an entire generation be less cynical? Would internet culture be the same as it is today, possibly for the better? 