After being so disappointed/confused with "The Matrix Reloaded" after seeing it in the theater in 2003, I didn't even see this film on the big screen when it came out, instead renting it once it came out on home video. After viewing, I realized that I missed the wrong Matrix film to skip for a long period of time.

Whereas "Revolutions" does not come close to the first film in duplicating the originality of the idea, it superbly triumphs the sub-par second film by eliminating much of the philosophical mumbo-jumbo and instead focus on a plot that the average viewer has a chance to understand.

Essentially, two things happen during the course of this film (I liken it to the Lord of the Rings series, where Frodo/Sam do their thing while the rest of Middle Earth fights Sauron): First, the city of Zion braces for (and eventually does engage) the approach machine army. The special effects in the war scenes are pretty incredible...not anything we haven't seen before, but not even as close to as faky as those in "Reloaded". The other plot line sees Neo and Trinity traveling deep into the heart of Machine City, where Neo ultimately has his final confrontation with the seemingly unstoppable Agent Smith. That final showdown is so intense (and so awaited) that it will raise the hairs on the back of your neck!

Overall, then, this film falls somewhere in between the originality of the first installment of the trilogy and the over-the-top sequel. Upon the conclusion of "Revolutions", I (and I consider myself to be an above-average viewer of science fiction) was still a bit confused as to what had exactly transpired, but not the utter sense of confusion I felt after viewing "Reloaded". Instead, "Revolutions" prompted me to check out what people were saying on the Internet, and eventually I did grasp the fundamental concept of what had happened.

So, if you were extremely disappointed by "Reloaded" and vowed to never view another Matrix film ever again, I strongly suggest that you give this one a try, as it completes the story of Neo in way that you can understand (even if it MAY take a little extra help from Internet scribes!). 