I do find it odd the reaction these movies are getting. To be sure, the first Matrix movie was great and nothing like it had come before. It was a mix of martial arts, kung fu and 'super' tech. While nothing special with the dialog, the dialog was tight and crisp ... even in Keanu's monotone voice.

Still, I was puzzled as to the reason for the human 'matrix' used by the machines and with that the whole story fell apart. It was still highly cool, but there was a big element missing in an otherwise excellent action/adventure story. There was no reason for humans in the 1st Matrix movie. It was explained that humans provided heat energy for the machines - however cows could have done just as well.. and even better taking much less in the way of resources.

Which brings me to Reloaded and Revolutions - because you really can not compare one with out the others.

Reloaded was definitely the weakest of the three, however it had some of the best scenes. Neo's fight with the Merovigian's henchmen was my fav and we learned there were predecessors to Neo's "the one". It also strongly hinted at a counter to "the one" .. in Agent Smith.

Which finally brings me to Revolutions - aptly named as we now know its an on going process, but a process with a purpose. This movie is also much different than the first since its one part EPIC BATTLE for 'creation' (or mankind) and then some kung fu action guns scenes (though much less kung fu than the 1st). We know the 1st Matrix was perfect in every way - but it was also a disaster. We can speculate that after this disaster the Oracle was created, as the Architect clearly does not have the capacity to see beyond pure logic and his balanced equations.

So why are humans needed? Humans are needed for the computers to evolve. Humans need choice - no matter how little - if they are to have a soul or free will. The architect did not understand this, but the Oracle does and so they play their game with the Ones - they human with free will (Neo) vs. the self aware program (Agent Smith), either can win, either can lose and as was shown Revoltions its possible they can all lose: ie Smith wins and destroys everything - even the machines - from the inside out.

In my mind this was the best of the three - we have a conclusion that is not set in stone, but it resolves all the major issues. We know the Matrix has been saved (yet again) but its different this time -as Zion was spared because Neo was stronger than all previous 'the Ones'. It was not a perfect ending and that is perfect for me :) 