 The movie 2012 had heaps-of-hype around it, and I finally got to see it after 4 years. My friends who had seen it said it was absolutely fantastic, and since they have pretty much the same taste as me in movies I trusted them. I rented it from my local library's movie section and watched the next day, after watching It. It started kind of slow, with all the bits and pieces, and eventually it just got boring. Soon after, though, the real stuff started happening. Explosions, People dying in horrific ways, buildings falling - all that jazz. For the first 90-100 minutes the movie was enthralling, and that was the beginning/middle, and eventually it just got to a point where it was still good and entertaining, but got kind of old after a while. I was hanging on until I got to the end, though, because I knew with a movie like this, the end must be awesome. I was right. I'm not telling you what it was, though. There were absolutely astonishing visual effects in the beginning/middle of the movie, and they looked oh so very awesome. Nice job, Mr. Emmerich and VFX team! Anyway, there were very few scenes in the beginning/middle/end of the movie that weren't awesome. Except in the end, I got kind of bored because it was long, and drawn out. Was it intense? Yeah! But it was just one of those movies that you really really like, but just want to end about 20 minutes earlier. The end was, hover, a subtle retelling of Noah's Ark, and that's really all I can tell you about this movie's end. There were some real shockers, too, and they will probably leave you in disbelief, if you are interested in the movie. By the way, only a 1 or 2 of my reviews have spoilers in them, so you should go check those out, too. The acting was everything you would want to have in a disaster flick, screaming, yelling, and tears, and everything else. You can really feel the emotions of the characters at times, especially with Harry who has a small role played by Blu Mankuma, a very skilled actor. The end was where the tired wall really hits you. It was good, don't get me wrong, but I really wanted to shave off maybe 15 - 20 minutes of the run time. My apologies if this is a bad review. I'm kind of out of it because I just went jogging, and before that watched a 158 minute movie that I'm reviewing right now. Anyway, I do recommend this movie to you if you like good movies, disaster movies, or are in the mood for some good, old -fashioned explosions. See ya! 