Les miserables a movie showing how people were in the 1800s. Starting with the cruelty of the people who imprisoned people for some small stuff and yet freeing them as dangerous men leading to their dis- acceptance in the society. Soldiers in that time, as the movie shows, were like machines, bodies that work for the government with not a little pit of conscience. Starting with a thief, Hugh Jackman ended up to be guided to God by a priest.

From the start the movie compels the audience to watch more. Time later shows how cruel the people were, for instance firing a woman because she had a child with no marriage, even though she begged that she needed money to pay for the people who her child lives with. The thing that started the fight and made the helper of Hugh Jackman to fire her was the jealousy the women had against her, Anne Hathaway.

I consider Anne Hathaway to be a brave woman who would cut all her hair for a movie, even though she wasn't obliged to. Other than her hair, she have lost so much weight in order to act in this movie. Very few actors who would do such a thing. Through her scenes, Anne, as her character, showed so much bravery by doing such indecent things to gain a little amount of money.

Russel Crowe is a typical example of a machine for the government, he abides to the law with his whole heart. As the revolution started I thought for a second that he went against the government by helping the revolutionists, but at the end he appeared to be as a spy.

Daniel's Huttlestone role grabbed my attention, he was a very brave actor. He stood with all grown up men, sang with them like it is all normal for him, knowing that he was the only child at the parts he appeared in.

Another part that also grabbed my attention was the family that Cossete lived with. They started with stealing even so they had a place where they can get money, and ended up to be on the streets yet they kept stealing. One more thing about them was of how their daughter was the total opposite of them, decent that is, she helped a man she loved to see the woman he loved.

What I liked in the movie was, it was all singing, even the dialogue was made out of singing, you might barely find any dialogue with no singing. Another thing I liked was the tone of the songs, most of them had very close tones to each other. And notice that the songs were sung live, not a playback. I also liked the pattern the movie was set on.

On the other hand, there were things I disliked in the movie. I didn't like the early death of Anne Hathaway, and how Russell Crowe didn't care about her death and wanted to catch Hugh Jackman. One more thing I disliked was the length of the movie, it was too long that at the end it becomes somehow boring to some people.

The buildings, streets, shops were all describing the correct time that is, 1800s. Overall, the movie had a great setting, well developed actors, and it was so inspirational. 