Let me start by saying it doesn't matter how much you have heard this movie sucks, I can promise you it is one of the best movies of the last 20 years. It does not matter that most that you are seeing is not true, if you are interested in truth then you can watch a documentary about him, if you are interested in watching an amazing and beautiful movie you found it. First it of all it got some amazing performances, Russell Crowe gives in my mind his absolute best performance yet, Jennifer Connelly also gives one of her best performances till date. I can't really say it is underrated since it won 4 Oscars and is rated as the 148th best movie of all time, but still. I really think this movie has gotten a lot of undeserved hate, and I personally have no clue why. The reason I have heard most is that it is very different to the real story, but in all biographical movies the story is changed to make it more watchable, so like I said earlier, watch a documentary if you are interested in John Nash, just know this movie is great. The story is incredibly beautiful and like nothing I have never seen before. The movie can definitely be hard to watch at times but all in all it is a truly amazing movie, and while being hard to watch I personally think there would be no problem in watching this with your kids. Ron Howard really does an amazing job as director and in my mind gives us his absolutely best movie yet. In my mind it is one of the best stories I have seen in a very long time, I will try to give a short resume without spoiling anything important. It starts with him beginning at Princeton University, while being extremely focused on a math thesis he only makes one real friend his roommate Charles. After graduating he starts teaching at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he meets a very smart student that later ends up being his wife. After 5 years of working as a teacher, Nash is one day approached by Department of Defense agent, William Parcher, where he is invited to the pentagon where he is told to try to crack a complex encryption of an enemy (soviet union) telecommunication. That is a pretty bad review but I am trying not to spoil anything. I am gonna finish by saying this is one of the best movies of the 2000's and one of the most beautiful movies of all time. I hope you found this review helpful and I hope you will love the movie as much as I do. 10/10 