Before Amadeus, i haven't seen a single movie from Milos Forman, but now i'm convinced that i need to catch with his previous works. If you're responsive to personal tragedies, then this movie will leave an impression on you.

What's the true brilliance of Amadeus? There was no battle, duel, or any kind of marvelous chase, but some scenes radiated more energy and tension than the final battle of Avatar. This is where you witness the directing skills of Mr. Forman. He was able to create epic scenes with the simplest tools. For example, the scene where Salieri reads Mozart's compositions occupies a prominent place in the hall of extraordinary movie moments.

Every character was prepared with meticulous care, even the seemingly insignificant imperial counselors formed separable individuals. A simple word or a tiny gesture was completely enough to figure out their personality. Portrayal of the emperor was another great implementation. He always wanted to appear educated and smart, but he couldn't even make a single statement without his crew". Tom Hulce's Mozart was clearly a new approach. It helped to build up the story, and served as a perfect symbol of divine injustice. However, everyone's performance was dwarfed by F. Murray Abraham. I've never seen anyone who is capable of expressing amazement and hatred at the same time. He was balancing on this imaginable thin line through his facial expressions so well. Not a single word was necessary to see inside his head and understand his feelings. A very complex and well-built character with a sad and unfair destiny.

Each concert ensures opportunities for the music to prevail and presents the real beauty of classical music. During these shows you can actually feel energy that flows through your body. These passionate composers are in love with music, and this obsession is a curse and a gift at the same time. However, the music was just the frame that ensured a breeding ground for the conflict to unfold. Forman could have presented a rivalry between two carpenter, and it would have made sense too.

Those who keep complaining about the historical inaccuracy didn't get the point. Amadeus's goal is not to be a tribute to Mozart, but to be a tribute to the people who were in the wrong place at the wrong time". You can work your ass off, but at a certain level, work can't beat talent. Salieri was clearly the Patron Saint of Mediocrity". During a lifetime everyone feels at least once what it feels like to be mediocre (at something where you want to be the best), and Salieri's personal tragedy is a base that people can identify with. However, talent can't stand on it's own. We witness that total lack of respect always leads to self destruction. Mozart's passion for music was visible, but humility can't be replaced by talent. Talent vs. Commitment. Mozart had, what was missing from Salieri, and Salieri had what was missing from Mozart. The perfect combination would be the mix of these two, but the world doesn't work like this.

At some points, it settled down a little bit, but it only lasted a few minutes, which is nothing compared to the length of the movie. It's definitely up there on my top movies list. Even those can appreciate Amadeus, who don't consider themselves a classical music fan. 