Who knew that Hugh Jackman or Anne Hathaway had such great vocal talent? As soon as I began Les Miserables, I was immediately entranced by the voices and scenery that was pictured on screen. The actors, cinematography, and costuming instantly threw me back in time during the period of the French Revolution. Director Tom Hooper portrayed each aspect of this movie with such precision that not one character trait or object was out of sync with the era. The story unfolds over many years in 19th century France, as the impoverished and middle class attempt to revolt against the monarchy.

The movie begins with the musical talent of Hugh Jackman, who plays Jean Valjean a prisoner set free after being confined to a life of dishonesty. But his life quickly changes as he chooses to pursue a journey towards redemption after breaking his parole. The events that progress afterward ultimately lead him to his final salvation with God, as he watches over Cosette, daughter of Fantine. After experiencing an awful childhood Cosette, played by the talented Amanda Seyfried, pursues a life of happiness that her mother always dreamed for her. The love that Fantine has for Cosette is so strong it is hard to portray on screen, but the actress behind the role had no issue.

Academy Award winner - Anne Hathaway plays the dramatic role as Fantine, a middle-class woman, who gives up just about everything - and I mean everything - to save her daughter. To say that Hathaway can sing is an understatement because anyone listening to her is directly drawn to her character and the story in which she is telling. Her song "I Dreamed a Dream" is filled with such raw emotion that even the most impassive person could empathize for this woman. But not to just give credit to Anne Hathaway, the whole cast had such mesmerizing voices that were so real and believable it was if was I was experiencing every little thing that they were going through. Not to mention that director Tom Hooper had each actor sing live during the screening process, meaning every voice heard on screen was real.

To me this is the key to a great movie, believability, not allowing one part of the film to fall short of another, and I can vouch for Director Tom Hooper when I say that he did just that. From the original novel, to the Broadway stage version, to a previous movie adaptation, and now to Hooper's film revision, this classic tale has been used a lot. It is hard to keep the depth of a storyline when various directors attempt to draw a different type of audience, but Hooper was able to maintain all the key components to this historical masterpiece. Every scene, costume, song, and character flowed so well together that it was if you were to read straight from the original novel itself. There's a strong complexity of emotion that needed to be kept from scene to scene, and the costuming and scenery only developed the passion within. The tiniest effects made the greatest difference in this timeless tale of Les Miserables. The dirt under the fingernails, the worn and tattered clothing, and the off kilter buildings only emphasized the tiredness and rebellion of the era.

This modern remake of Les Miserables is a groundbreaking production in the film industry; thanks to its talented cast and accurate portrayal of the French Revolution era during 19th France. Director Tom Hooper's precision on the small details of the scenery, costuming, and cinematography only aided in the depth of the storyline, taking the audience back to this day and age. This movie is well worth the ticket, so why wait one day more? 