Clash of the Titans is a bad fantasy, adventure film. I have not seen the 1981 film of the same name, but I might be interested in checking it out in the future. I could not believe my eyes when I saw that this movie cost 125 million $ and that it grossed almost 500 million $. It makes me sad that such movies earn so much money.

First of all, I can't believe I'm saying this, but I didn't understand anything from the action scenes of this film. I found it weird that some people could not understand the action in Transformers and its sequels when I had no problem figuring out what was going on. This being stated, the action scenes in this film are very confusing, especially a scene involving giant scorpions. At first there was one scorpion and minutes later, there were about 5 more and I couldn't figure out where the hell did they come from. I blame this on Louis Leterrier, the director of this film. Definitely, the worst part of this film is the directing and I can almost say that it is one of the most poorly-directed films I have ever seen.

Second of all, the script is full of stupid lines and a lot of scenes in the film feel cheesy and worthless. The characters suffered because of this and not once was I actually rooting for Perseus to defeat Hades. And when some characters stood out and I actually got interested in them, they immediately did something which put me off.

The acting of the film is most likely the only good aspect, but not a stand-out. The actors who did a great job were Liam Neeson as Zeus and Ralph Fiennes as Hades. They were awesome, although after thinking of it, Hades' voice was too similar to that of Lord Voldemort, but no biggie. Definitely the two of them worked great when they were on screen together and they possibly represent the only good aspect of this film. Another character I liked, but was barely in the film, is that of Spyros, foster father to Perseus, portrayed by Pete Postlethwaite. Maybe Gemma Arterton as Io and Mads Mikkelsen as Draco are also worth mentioning. Now I don't know if his acting was the worst in the film but it definitely annoyed me the most. I'm talking about Sam Worthington. Can he be more hollow than this?! He is the same character in every film and I can't understand how he gets so many important roles.

Overall this film is a 6. I was wondering if I should go higher but after further thinking about this film, it's definitely the correct rating. I suggest you avoid this film unless you are very bored and are in the mood for some mythological-related action. 