 Les Miserables turned out to be one of the best musical dramas that I have seen in years (I am not a big fan of the high school musical series) and the praise that this film getting is what it truly deserves. The Movie follows the story of a thief, Jean Valjean(Hugh Jackman),who finds redemption after he is left dubious about his ideas of hate and love by an act of kindness. Everything about him changes and he decides to be a man of good for once,while he is being dogged by the police officer, Javert( Russel Crowe), who believes that criminals are always criminals(he claims to have been born in prison but he is not one). The rest of the story is how Jean becomes responsible for Fantine's (Anne Hathaway) death and pledges to raise her daughter while being chased by the justice maniac Javert amidst the dawn of the French revolution. When he finds out that his adopted daughter Cosette (Amanda loop Sayfried) is in love with a young rebel named Marius (Eddie Redmayne), Jean must decide what to do. The whole atmosphere of the French Revolution is really immersive and actually pulls you into feeling the tension that exist between the rich and the poor. Tom Hooper has brought out a perfect looking movie that is truly a spectacle to watch. Here and there a few problems creep up,one which I felt was the length of the film and some of the dialogues(songs I mean) felt a little stretched. Despite these tiny annoyances, this film keeps your attention through it's beautiful visual story telling and terrific performances by its cast. Even when the songs get a little tiring their performances drive it to the finishing line. Some aspects of the movie like the love triangle( sort of ) between Cosette, Marius and Epoine ( Samantha Barks) didn't get the seriousness that it was trying to portray and I felt Epoine lamenting about lost love fell on deaf ears. Also the Thenaedier couple got a bit more screen time than what they needed. But other than that the movie is brilliant to watch.Hugh Jackman , Russell Crowe and Anne Hathaway nail it. Especially Anne Hathaway's performance screams for an Oscar. Even little Cosette shines a symbol of innocence and truth amidst the social decay of France. It the actors who stand out remarkably in the film and by far I believe that it is one of the best chosen cast. This is a movie that every movie lover should watch. So get ready for a lifetime of Fight, Dream, Hope and Love. 