"I dreamed a dream in time gone by, when hope was high and life worth living..." Based on Victor Hugo's epic eponymous French historical 1862 novel, and adapting the beloved songs of the said film from the Broadway smash-hit by Claude-Michel Sch?nberg and Alain Boublil of which debuted in 1980, Tom Hooper's (The King's Speech) triumphant romantic musical period drama 'Les Miserables' opened on Christmas Day 2012. With a budget of $61 million, the film would eventually but deservedly win three Academy Awards and three Golden Globes and gross a worldwide total of $441 million plus. To the English-speaking world, the book's title is referred to in its original French, while several alternatives, however, have been used as well, including 'The Miserable', The Wretched', 'The Miserable Ones' and 'The Wretched Poor'among others. So does this beautiful and breathtaking blockbuster, a musical feast for the eyes and ears,possibly then remain unsung? Let's take a look.

The film begins in 1815 and continues on to culminating in the 1832 June Rebellion in Paris, following the lives and interactions of several characters, particularly the struggles of ex-convict 24601 or Jean Valjean (Hugh Jackman) and his experience of redemption near the film's end, as he is about to die in a church, questioning his own life's morals and choices. The film also adapts many natures from the novel as well, examining the nature of law and grace, elaborating the history of France, Paris' then urban design, politics, moral philosophy, antimonarchism, justice, religion and exploring the nature of romantic and familial love.

Set against the backdrop of 19th-century France, 'Les Mis' opens with Jean Valjean, a Frenchman released on parole after serving nineteen years at Toulan Prison for stealing a loaf of bread for his starving family (originally it was five years but the sentence was elongated due to his running away). Eight years later, he becomes a factory owner and mayor of Montreuil, Pas-de-Calais, adopting Cosette (eventually Amanda Seyfried) from living with the Thenardier twosome (Sacha Baron Cohen and Helena Bonham Carter), an unscrupulous pair of swindling innkeepers, and their daughter Eponine (eventually Samantha Barks). Cosette is the daughter of Fantine (Anne Hathaway), one of his struggling establishment workers-turned-prostitute, of whom was trying to raise money for her ill child. All the while and for decades now, ValJean is pursued by the ruthless police inspector Javert (Russell Crowe), devoting his entire life to incarcerating ValJean once again in shackles with the chain gang. Nine years later, poverty increases in Paris, and Jean Maximilien Lamarque is the only government official sympathetic towards the poor, thus causing a group of young revolutionary students, known as the Friends of the ABC, to plan a rebellion of the French monarchy. One of them, Marius Pontmercy (Eddie Redmayne) falls for the fair and beautiful Cosette, where, unbeknownst to them singing at her gate together, Eponine watches secretly in the shadows, also yearning for his love in return but realizing it was never meant to be. Once the rebellion commences, this leads up to the climactic and powerful fight for freedom, as all the souls shot down in the battle are reunited and sing triumphantly at the holy barricade on the other side and waving the French tricolor victoriously before the end credits roll.

'Les Mis' is no doubt a magnificent feat for director Tom Hooper, along with cast and crew. The film boasts fifty-one songs in total, as most of the numbers are phenomenal as each note is sung with a longing passion straight from the depths of the human spirit, including: "I Dreamed a Dream", "Suddenly", "One Day More", "On My Own", "Red and Black" and "Do You Hear the People Sing?" Every single song was recorded live on set to capture the spontaneity of the performances, and the actors wore ear pieces which fed the sound of a live piano being played off-stage to keep their singing in key. Hugh Jackman even went thirty-six hours without water, causing him to lose water weight in his checks and eyes, allowing him to display the gaut appearance of a prisoner, and Anne Hathaway's performance at audition reportedly blew everyone away, leaving them in tears and eventually winning her an Academy Award and a Golden Globe. Originally aiming for a four-hour running time (as compared to the 1934 film) and fifteen minutes of battle sequence, the film was cut to two and a half hours with fifteen minutes of the final film was cut out. 'Les Mis' was the first film in a decade to win an Academy Award nomination since 'Chicago' (2002). Critics had their own say afterwards, leaving a C plus rating as one sites' consensus reads: "Impeccably mounted but occasionally bombastic, Les Miserables largely succeeds thanks to bravura performances from its distinguished cast." Danny Cohen's cinematography made a point in 'The King's Speech' showing the awkward relationship between England's Prince Albert "Bertie" (Colin Firth) and speech therapist Lionel Logue (Geoffrey Rush) upon their first meeting, whereas here in 'Les Mis', for some scenes, the camera-work repeats this for no reason, where other times the camera jerks about wildly, allowing many pivotal moments to become lazy and unfocused. Even though the actors are giving there all during their numbers, a handful can really sing while others fall short of those of whom can.

Many adaptations of the film had followed throughout the years, including the more highly-praised 1935 film starring Fredric March and Charles Laughton, and the 1998 version starring Liam Neeson. However this newest installment, with its powerful performance and its demanding to be seen on the big screen will ultimately move you in some form due to its powerful impact regarding the inner pangs of squelched dreams, unrequited love and sacrifice exemplified here as a timeless testament to the survival of the human spirit to live on for one day more. 