...........................................................from Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FL

There have been only about a score or so of films that have transcended being simply a movie and, because of their unprecedented impact upon many millions of viewers, have contributed to our culture, becoming part of it, and more recently, to that of the entire world.

After being 62nd birthday-treated to AVATAR in IMAX 3-D by my wife, I state, for the record, it is an incomparable voyage, a magical mystery tour experience, to a poignant culture-clash on an enchanted world most distant both in time and space A movie it is not! Visionary James Cameron has created, crafted and orchestrated a labor of love for the ages.

At long last, CGI has come of age, finding in AVATAR a vehicle capable of demonstrating the awesome splendor of its true potential. We are transported to an intricately designed world, complete with a Neolithic race of aliens, rich with culture and traditions, speaking its own uniquely linguistically engineered on-screen language (A Cinema First) As for the "It's Anti- American!" grumblings:

1) The troops were not even U.S., they were corporate hired guns!

2) Life isn't about winning or losing battles: It's about living in harmony with one's environment At least that's how I saw it.

Wow! Talk about nefarious agendas!

In the opening seconds, James Cameron seems to pay tribute to both 2001 and Star Wars. Some reviewers have mentioned a similitude to Pocahontas. There were different moments that conjured up memories of story threads from many different films, but thematically, Dances With Wolves was, perhaps, closest. However, a straight up comparison to any other film does not do AVATAR justice. It is totally in a league of its own.

Every aspect of AVATAR is practically hyperbole-proof. Just look at the plethora of gushing reviews. Yet, amazingly, there are some 2*, even 1* ratings! Honestly, I can't fathom how anyone who has ventured more than 100 miles from their place of birth could rate it less than 5*. (The word Provincial keeps popping into my head!) Closing words: The only film in my life that raised the cinematic bar more was Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey(1968)

Don't just see AVATAR Experience it! 10*....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA!

Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Espa?ol, are most welcome!.....