Yes there are lots and lots of spoilers! Don't read if you haven't seen it yet and still want to.

I was hesitant in seeing this movie to begin with because I knew I would be disappointed and I was. This is nowhere close to the actual myth:

Perseus's mother didn't die, and was in fact the reason he decided to obtain the head of Medusa. (It was meant as a wedding gift for the king Polydectes, the brother of Dyctus who took them in after they washed ashore. Polydectes wanted a stallion from every household in his kingdom knowing that Perseus could never attain one, hoping that Perseus would flee in shame and Polydectes could make Perseus's mother his lover, Perseus instead insisting on bringing him the head of Medusa.)

Acrisius, though he was a king, was Danae's father, and he was never turned into the hideous monster Calibos, who doesn't even exist in the myth. The Kraken was not part of the myth, it was the monster Cetus.

Though Io does,somewhat, accurately relate the story of how Medusa was turned into a Gorgon, Io herself is not in the myth at all and in fact was a priestess that the Goddess Hera turned into a cow and then drove mad by a gadfly.

Although Athena and Hermes do aid Perseus to an extent, there is very little involvement of the gods at all in the myth.

The part of Andromeda's mother Cassiopeia infuriating the gods who demanded she sacrifice Andromeda was almost correct. Cassiopeia did claim that Andromeda was more beautiful than the Nereids, which infuriated Poseidon, they were the daughters of his friend and another sea-god Nereus, and he demanded Andromeda be sacrificed to Cetus. This was not the reason for Perseus to attempt obtaining the head of Medusa though, see above. This was more or less a coincidence on his way home as he traveled through Aetheopia.

He did not have Pegasus when he traveled to find Medusa either, as Pegasus was the child of Poseidon and Medusa and sprung fully-formed from Medusa's severed neck when Perseus slew her.

There are many more inaccuracies,though these are the most obvious. Some viewers may not care about these, however it is something of importance when a movie is retelling a myth or story that it be accurate.

The other problems with this movie is the wooden performances, Liam Neeson and Ralph Fiennes just appear to be going through the motions and don't want to be there at all, same for Sam Worthington who appears to only be in it to collect a paycheck.

The special effects are overused and take away from the movie rather than enhance it. Also, back to the inaccuracies, Cetus was said to be either a giant shark or whale.

Movie as a whole was disappointing and probably not something I would watch again, nor recommend to anyone else. 