Okay so this is a movie about Greek mythology and a very shallow and narrow one at that. To put it simply this movie pretty much sucks, there is almost nothing special about this movie and almost nothing stands out. The plot is very narrow and simple, sort of like going from point A to point B but there is nothing really imaginative or creative or even entertaining about it. The actor Sam Worthington came out of nowhere and was in "Terminator Salvation", "Avatar" and now this. And I guess Hollywood is trying to sell him off as the next big thing but he just plays a boring and generic character in everything I saw in him so far, which is few but still. If this was a video game cut-scene it might be somewhat forgivable but it's not. In fact watching the video game "God of War" is more entertaining than this. The CGI is alright but nothing all that special and same elements has been done before and can get kinda crappy sometimes for a movie that was released in 2010. The movie is about a half human half god guy named Perseus(Same Worthington) rising up against the gods. Liam Neeson looks the part and fits Zeus very well but his character is easily manipulated. The gods in this movie just seem pretty weak mentally and there powers seem far from being omnipotent. But some parts in the Greek mythology is like this but it gets sort of awkward in a negative way because the gods in this seem too human sometimes. Ralph Fiennes plays Hades who is sort of the opposite of Zeus in some ways. Which is interesting because the last time these two actors played opposites in the same movie was in "Schindler's List". One aspect I liked about this movie though personally is how it shows how arrogance can lead to downfall including when it comes to the mortals. I also find it interesting how Luke Evans who plays Apollo in this will play Zeus in "Immortals". For marketing reason this film goes 3D as well at last minute and the outcome isn't very good. I haven't seen the original but I have a feeling that it must be better than this. The man build up is for the Kraken and even that was disappointing, it's very short and it's nowhere close to a epic fight. Hollywood does a good job of making the trailers way more epic than the movie itself and that applies this.

3.6/10 