This fantasy adventure turned mythological mayhem was once the proud and final work of special effects master Ray Harryhausen. His work on the original film left such an impression on the world that it can be safe to say that it was one of the greatest old fantasy films ever made, mainly through the creatures Ray portrayed such as Medusa and the Kraken. To me, it was kinda a surprised that it has been remade, so naturally, being a fan of Ray, I checked this action out. Does it live up to the original classic? To me, it basically does.

Many elements from the original film are still around such as most of the creatures and the basic story. With remakes, there's always new elements besides updated special effects, namely new characters and the direction the filmmakers went with this one. The new characters are sorta hit and miss, many of them are pretty interesting and sometimes humorous while a few others not so much. One new character whose performance I really enjoyed was Hades, God of the Underworld. He's so creepy, complex, and awesome that while humanity mocks the gods, he puts them in their place. Nice! Sam Worthington's portrayal of Persius is nicely done as he does as much as he can without much help to prove that he's more man than god, though this somewhat stubborn outlook does backfire on him a little, making things a little more interesting. Plus, Liam Neeson makes a great Zeus.

Now for the creatures, which are a big part of the story. I like how they made Pegasus black instead of the traditional white, making the flying horse a bit more eye-catching. The scorpions are noticeably bigger and badder than back in the old movie and they have a more prominent role. Medusa is absolutely great as while she has the same basic look as before, her improved design combines both her once great beauty with her serpentine lethality. This makes her both sexy and deadly. The Kraken is by far the most awesome as not only does he look cool, but he is also a terrifying and destructive force of nature, which is enough for the gods to we themselves with fear. The rest of the creatures are good in my book.

Other aspects of the movie, like the action scenes and music, are great to behold. There are some things to nitpick like certain characters that are either a little bland or annoying as well as are particular bits of dialog. Overall, a remake that's nicely done and may actually be better than the original. Worth a watch so check it out. RELEASE THE KRAKEN! 