There are going to be some spoilers in here, but the movie is based on a true story so you can consider this as non spoilers.

"A beautiful mind" is about John Nash. A brilliant, but antisocial man. The movie starts of with him going to the university where he meets Charles, who becomes his best friend. At some point in the movie he gets offered a job, to work in cryptography. He accepts this job but it turns out to be a bad decision which changes his life...

The movie is directed by Ron Howard, believe me or not, that is the same guy who did "The Da Vinci Code". I was very surprised too. It was very well directed in comparison to "The Da Vinci Code". I didn't like that movie at all, but I still gave it a 6/10 because I liked the book. The cinematography was also handled great. It was done by 'legend' Roger Deakins. This man is just amazing at his job every shot was really beautiful. The scene I personally thought was the best cinematographed was the scene where Charles and Nash were standing on the roof, how the camera flowed was just so pretty, the dialogue in this scene was also very good, this was my favorite scene. But not only in this scene is the movement of the camera good, this applies to almost all of the scenes. Which has a pretty outcome. What I didn't really like was how they used the orange collar scheme. it did make the movie look old, which I think they were aiming for, but I personally think it didn't look too good. The creativity put in to this movie was also very good. Like when Nash and Alicia are outside of a building and look up to the sky. Then Nash says that she must pick a shape and she tells him the shape of a umbrella, what I liked about this scene is how they lit up the stars that formed the umbrella. The also do this at times when Nash is cracking codes. It was overall cool to see how he unravels the codes. The make- up was very good, how they made Crowe look old was just so good.

The acting of the movie was also amazing. Russel Crowe was by far the best. He played John Nash. He did an amazing job to portray him, and you could really believe that he was antisocial. You can see this in the beginning of the movie very well. Jennifer Connelly played Alicia. Alicia was the love interest of Nash. She was also good. She was a worried wife to him, and she nailed acting like one. Paul Bettany. His character I liked the most. He played Charles, a funny, caring, friend. And when he turned out to not be real I was shocked (a bit more about this twist further on in the review). Paul was also very good. Ed Harris played the 'Boss' off Nash when he started to work in cryptography. He was also good, but he was my least favorite character. There is also Adam Goldberg, he also played in the TV-show Fargo and in Saving Pravite Ryan. In this movie he did a good acting job, even though I think he was better in Fargo. You also have some smaller role characters, and they did the best they could. Overall the acting was good, but I was more blown away by Russel Crowes performance

The script was good too. You can see this, by how easily you are convinced that Nash is antisocial. You can also feel the friendship that has bred between Nash and Charles, which makes it more heartbreaking to see him say goodbye to Charles. They also had some great chemistry. There were also some funny moments that broke the dramatic tone, but this isn't necessarily a bad thing. The twist in the middle of the movie was just mind blowing, I didn't see that coming, but I could have guessed. Because Charles was never at parties (in the beginning of the movie) but then he suddenly appeared out of nowhere. I definitely liked the twist, because it wasn't anything really predictable, like it is in most movies. But if you did some research you also could have known that it was all fake. Because of the writing and acting, you almost immediately cared about Nash, whereby it wad more sad to watch. Even though it is a drama it has some good romance in it to, what I didn't expect.

Thank you for reading this review. I enjoyed watching this film, and would recommend this to other people. The ending is beautiful too.

"What truly is logic" 