This movie feels like it was a chunk cut out of another film; barely anything happens- resolve the cliffhanger at the end of the previous film, main protagonists split up- some fight robots, others participate in the final fight, the end. This also seems to have a similar story pattern to Return of the Jedi. Some plot points in the movie seem useless like the bit at the start resolving the cliffhanger of Reloaded. It has no effect on the rest of the story and seems so slapped in and out of place. The new characters introduced in that part are never seen again afterwards and serve no purpose to the story. Also, many plot points seem rushed: Trinity dies (yes, I did say spoilers) and as she is a major character you would expect it to have more of an effect than what was given; after the scene it never appears to be brought up again. Some of the action seems off too- the first fight scene between Neo and Smith isn't good. There are loads of flashing lights so you can barely tell what is going on and the camera is really shaky too. Compare it to all of their other fight scenes in the trilogy and you just start to wonder what on earth went wrong there. At least their final fight was alright. Many people don't like the ending but I personally thought it was fine and probably the best way to end it; Neo's sacrifice seemed fitting and kind of gave him a new reason of being 'The One' for me which I liked. You can only really watch this movie if you've seen the other two as it is just a conclusion. There also isn't really much point of rewatching it as the point of watching it for me is to just find out the ending and not for the overall experience like the other two. Overall, this movie isn't that good. If you want to see the conclusion to the Matrix trilogy or that cliffhanger from Reloaded is really bugging you then I'd probably recommend this just to find out what happens and not for the overall experience. However, if you're just wanting to watch any movie at all then this one doesn't have the amount of fun the first two had and I'd probably give it a miss. 5.8/10 