I have previously stated that I'm a myth buff, so I might be slightly biased to this movie from the get-go. It also has Sam Worthington from the new Terminator and Man On A Ledge. It also has Gemma Arterton, from Prince Of Persia and some other movies.

This movie has it down to the lore for the most part. It's ironclad with epic battles and awesome special effects. It's got awesome characters and great acting. It also has a great cast. The story is interesting, though kind of cliche.

And they use Perseus, one of the most ignored myth figures (more on him later).

"RELEASE THE KRAKEN!"

Can't ignore one of the greatest lines in history.

This movie is one of the best, entertainment wise. The fight scenes were fast-paced and awesome, the special effects and musical scores were epic. It's pretty fantastic for a popcorn film with some humor mixed in some parts.

However, it's one of those "clusterfuck of death" movies. Which are annoying go say the least. Like 3.5 soldiers live including Perseus. Yeah, there's a point five in there for a reason, I didn't just randomly throw it in there.

Plenty of people rip on the plot and premise, though I gotta say I don't see what they're getting at. Yes, there's your predictable messiah complex, and yeah, the deaths of most of the characters lack impact, but in terms of the world and such, it's actually pretty interesting (though not much is really done with it). The people of Earth begin shunning the Gods, no longer praying towards them, so Hades comes to Olympus and talks Zeus into chastising the humans. And by chastising, I mean brutally murdering and then giving an ultimatum to those still alive: sacrifice the princess of their region or suffer a tentacle-y death (from the Kraken obviously). So Perseus who had been taken into "custody" and a legion of soldiers go off to find the Moirai, or the Fates, and hopefully find a way to kill the Kraken. The city is taken over by civilians who just want to live, while Perseus and his troupe of soldiers go on their mighty adventure.

One big thing I want to criticize from a mythological standpoint is that while Poseidon is portrayed quite well (a psychopathic rapist), Zeus and Hades aren't. Both Zeus and Poseidon had sex with so many creatures before humanity was even a thing, yet Zeus genuinely wants Perseus (his son; a demigod) to survive/not be killed by the Kraken. Dude, Zeus would want to eat Perseus if anything to prevent his own death, which is something he did A LOT in the mythology, because he was paranoid. Hades, as usual in Hollywood fashion, is portrayed as your usual bad guy. And just so everybody who isn't a myth buff knows, Hades wasn't actually a bad guy. He kinda got screwed over and thrown into the Underworld, but he was actually a good guy; his brothers were asses, but I digress. The worst thing he did was kidnap Persephone and force her into marriage, and while it's no defense for what he did, here's why he did it: he didn't know any better. He lived in his father's stomach for years, only to be sent to the Underworld after the war against the Titans where there was no time for love. He kinda was just stuck there and never really learned a good way to romance, so when he saw this beautiful and nice girl, he practically hopped on a chariot, went into the overworld, picked her up and drove her back down with him. He was lonely and again, not an excuse, but that's the reason. And you can tell he was a good guy because he still let her go to the overworld one day every year (which is when spring begins). So he suffers the same fate of Magneto: misused as the token villain.

It gets a 10/10. It's epic. Don't listen to the critics, this is an awesome movie. One of my favorites. Definitely better than "Wrath". I hope Rage can return this franchise to its roots of badassery.? While it does a good job of respecting the mythos, it still does its own thing. For example, the Perseus of myth, like most heroes, had no real personality. Instead here, he does some (thin) depth.

I haven't seen the original Titans film (I own it, I just haven't gotten around to it yet), but I'm pretty sure most people hate this because "Aaaargh! Reboot!". But my family (who has seen it) explained to me where this film deviated from the original, so I can tell you that this film does its own thing; but on the other hand, it does respect the original with some Easter eggs (which I found out via wiki lol) 