Please excuse me for delving into our political and cultural conditions to review this film. I know my hands are sort of tied that way as Hollywood can't help itself in using their neo-blockbuster movies to beat the rest of us over the head with their misapplied feng shui idealism.

You know how they go - fractured family realizes they belong together thanks to some unlikely disaster to befall humankind, the President waxing philosophical of their predicament as it relates to the issues of our day, humans are bad and need to die so that the rest of the bad humans who lived can move on while forgetting the lessons of the film, visual metaphors to underscore the moral of the story and lastly, not one iota of common sense throughout the movie.

What makes this one especially bad is that it catered to children. Not that child entertainment is a bad thing, but imprinting the fertile minds of young movie-goers with the supposed 2012 end of days tripe. They (who come up with such ideas for films) think they're smart enough to tell everyone else how to live while ignoring what they already should have learned.

The scientist in me would love to know how planes can take off of ground surfaces which are falling into the sea, then be seen trying to navigate newly-formed canyons in a state of flux themselves. And what is wrong with trying to fly OVER falling buildings? Another thing, why does everybody have to wait until the last minute (much less stand and stare at an erupting volcano) to evacuate? I never understood that.

Finally, the thing I most disliked about this movie is how it suggests that the United States has the market cornered on being bad even if the general theme was that all of humanity needed a reboot. Every country has a dark underbelly (its the cost of dealing with other countries which have the darkest of underbellies) and ours is no worse than any before it. I didn't appreciate the scene of an aircraft carrier taking out the President and the White House. I'll never understand how people can take such shots at a country they make a good chunk of change in. I think they should be banned from ever entering the borders, but that's just me.

I'm not religious, but the symbolic imagery of the crack forming between God and man on the Vatican ceiling didn't get by me. I get it Hollywood, the Catholic God is the only bad one. When you go after other religions I won't think of you as soft opportunistic bullies who've hijacked the freedom of expression to advance your political agenda against the nation which makes it possible.

Movies like this make me sick - even when I view them for free. 