When I first saw this film, I was invested. Second time, I was bored. Third time, annoyed. And so on. I can see why people really like this movie. With no strings attached to any other productions, the movie isn't that bad. The characters are interesting, scenes are also shot in interesting ways, and it never lets up story wise. But being a music guy myself and seen better productions of this musical, I just can't see it the same way others do. I respect those who do like this movie, and a lot of people really enjoy it. I'm glad they can see past the close ups, misplaced singing, and brushed over side characters because I can't.

I tell you all of this because I just believe Les Miserables is just directed in a way where it ether just doesn't look good, confusing, or just boring. However, my complaints aren't connected to the acting in the film. For as much as Russell Crow has been criticized by critics for his horrific singing, he's still Russell Crow. He brings a solid performance of honor, determination, and authority. Hugh still gives his best singing and acting wise. And Ann Hathaway gave her role as Fantine her best. If this was shot in a way that was slow or tense or at the very least normal, this could've worked. Sort of what Joe Wright did for Pride and Prejudice , just a solid adaptation of classic with enough standout performances to make it an independent piece art but still keeping it to the source material so that you can say "they made that". But that's not what they wanted. They wanted an action adventure with dark deaths, harsh outcomes, and ambiguity... with singing! That's the biggest problem with the movie. It's not sure if it wants to be an independent piece of art or faithful to the original musical. So, after a dramatic sequence where someone important dies, you might get some random slapstick that isn't even funny. It also wants to be a dark comedy along with being a dramatic piece of art. This works, if you're given a world you can fully embarrass. In Pulp Fiction, you laugh at horrific scenes because the protagonists didn't know what was truly going to happen. So it felt like you, a person with morals, could understand how insane these people really are. But in Les Miserables, there is no consistency with the kind of world they're living. It just says, "There needs to be humor now" or "there needs to be drama now". There is no over arcing tone to it all.

But, I'll say it again; the actors really buy into what is going on. They fully devote themselves to these roles. So, is it good? Well, in my opinion, I believe it's weak. I personally hate weak films because I can't particularly hate them nor can I like them. But it's worth a watch just for the actors or cultural value. But, if you had the choice between this film and Silence of the Lambs, I'd choose Silence of the Lambs. 