I saw the Phantom Menace for the first time when I was 5 years old, and I remember being blown away by what I had watched. It was fantastic through the eyes of a child, something George was clearly trying to do. Now I am an adult, and watching it through the eyes of one, I can see all the mistakes, but that does not make the movie bad.

For one, Star Wars has always been a series that has been aimed at children. Yes adults like it also, but Star Wars is not just popular for its films, but for its video games, toys and books. Most of which are for children. This film was great and it showed one of the best adventures of the 90s. When people complain about this film, their excuse is usually the same: too much CGI, poor acting and poor writing and poor direction.

Yes the CGI is a bit dated, but it was really spectacular in some scenes. The acting was great in this film, as it was in the next two. The only actor who didn't give the best, was the young Jake Lloyd. It would be unfair to criticise the performance of someone who was a child at the time, of course he was not going to give a Al Pacino performance. The writing is OK, I guess, but really ask yourself this - what Star Wars film has good writing? None. They all have fantastic stories, which is why people love these films so much.

George did a great job at expanding on his already loved saga. He gave us new worlds, new characters and showed us the Jedi Order, something we have been wanting to see for a long time. This film is a joyful adventure, with a great story.

The character of Jar Jar is often another point of hate from 'older fans'. 'OLDER' fans. To a child, Jar Jar is a funny, clumsy stupid alien who acts insane, much like many Disney cartoon characters. I have a child of my own, and she thinks Jar Jar is hilarious, she is always pointing and laughing at him. THIS IS WHAT GEORGE WANTED!

This film will always be criticised by people who just don't like it, or don't want to like it. But this is not a bad film. It starts of an adventure which would eventually lead to episode 6, and the future movies. Star Wars Episode 1 The Phantom Menace is a great film and a fantastic science-fiction movie.

9.6/10 