So, it ends the dubious "saga" of Matrix, which began as a sci-fi collage in the late 90s, to become this mess of exhausting visual effects and characters which used to work back then, but by the time of this movie, are just annoying brats dressed as emos. But, let's stop complaining, and on to the review (some spoilers ahead).

Remember the cliffhanger which made all the nerds in the Internet to make up incredible and, sometimes, rather creative theories and explanations?, well, all the thing was just Neo trapped in a train station by the Gyro Captain of Mad Max 2. Yes. That was it. And this leads to yet another boring confrontation with the french dude from the last movie, which concludes with... Neo being freed. What's the impact of this subplot in the main story?. None. But it was a good way to resolve the cheap cliffhanger left by the last movie... good in monetary sense, I mean: it made all the fan boys return to watch the movie.

But, alas, then we have the actual plot of the movie, which is so stupid, it's hard to believe. Neo now wants to go to the "source". Why?, he doesn't know, but he goes anyway. The rest return to Zion, and we have to watch a battle sequence so boring, it's almost incredible: the characters in that sequence aren't developed at all. Why must we care for these guys?, good question.

So, long story short, Neo goes to the source. He's blind now, but he "sees everything", because now it's time to rip off Dune, I guess. Trinity dies, he goes inside a city of machines, talks to a machine, he's plugged into some machine, and then he fights Agent Smith, which is ultra powerful now, for some reason. In the end, he's the victor, of sorts, and the machines stop their attack against Zion and retreat, leaving mankind still mostly enslaved by the machines, and living in a hole in the ground, but everyone is happy: Morpheus is crying of happiness, so I guess we must be happy also.

This movie is so stupid and pretentious, it becomes unbearable to watch. For example, the "I do this and that for LOVE" is a recurrent theme, repeated by almost every character of the movie; yeah... that's subtle. You know what's another thing you can do to make it even more subtle?, maybe NOT MAKING EACH CHARACTER ON THE MOVIE REPEAT IT.

But, at least, this movie had a good thing: it ended. Conclusion?, if you don't have a good story, please, don't make sequels to somewhat successful movies. All the hype, effects and pretentiousness can't replace a good story.

3/10 