Every time I discuss the prequels with friends and family and they try to get me to admit that these aren't bad movies. They point out the only one good aspect from each film as if that offsets the countless offenses each film commits to my love of Star Wars. These are the films that turned me from a die hard fan into only minor fan of the overall Star Wars. I was ready to give up on it until Disney and J.J. Abrams brought me back. Because they keep arguing with me, I am writing a review for each film and will refer them to this site to read why I despise this films to the core.

Every time I argue about this movie I'm told that Darth Maul and the lightsaber battle is awesome, and indeed it is. But it's like trying to dig through dung to get to the diamond.Is it worth it? Maybe if you don't mind the smell, so to speak. This movie starts off so slowly that you almost fall asleep. Looking aside from the Trade Federation aliens as obvious (and offensive) Asian racial stereotypes, it seems the movie is about to pick up the pace when the Federation invades Naboo, when we are smacked in the face with Jar Jar Binks, perhaps the worst creation in the history of cinema. He is so annoying you want him to die the instant he opens his mouth. Instead he leads the Jedi to the next offensive racial stereotype in the form of Boss Nass. Several supposedly "exciting" minutes later we are introduced to wooden Natalie Portman. Why does everyone think she is a good actress. I never thought she was good in anything before this or since.

Long, long time after this we are introduce to Jake Lloyd as young Vader. I can't believe he got this part. Watch the making off documentary. They turn down 2 kids who obviously have better acting skills. (We also meet yet another stereotype in the form of Watto.) So we have a long boring pod race with mind numbing commentary from a weird alien creature, before it's off to talk politics for an hour while the Jedis' and the Queen's story of invasion is not believed by the Senate. (They trust the Jedi to negotiate peace, but don't trust them about the invasion?)

Finally, we return to Naboo and Darth Maul makes his appearance to the Jedi and we are given the only truly thrilling part of the movie with the amazing lightsaber duel, only to have it ruined by something that happens two movies later. (See my review on Revenge of the Sith.)

You might still be able to defend this movie in your mind, but I have to ask, "Who is the main Character?" There isn't one. And name me one likable protagonist in the film. You can't do it. When these movies came out, I convinced myself I liked them too. (I'll tell you how I found out I hated these movies in my review of Revenge of the Sith.) Really think about it. What is it you like about The Phantom Menace? If you're honest with yourself, you'll find there isn't much about to like. 