Well well well,, the title of the movie is "Les Miserables" its a long movie but it was a great movie too! You're not loss to watch this movie. Its kind a drama musical. The casts : Hugh Jackman as Jean Valjean, Russel Crowe as Javert, Anne Hathway as Fantine, Amanda Seyfried as Cosette, Eddie Redmayne as Marius, Samantha Barks as Eponine and many more. The movie background was French Revolution. Before it there was man named Jean Valjean who's free but he required to report and known as 24601. But he sick of it and he ripped the paper and begun a new life. He become a governor which led a very good city. One day Javert came to his town, he was surprised but Javert doesn't know. Then he found the man "24601" but because Jean was a good man he admitted that. Then he met Fantine, she works at Jean's place but she was fired because the stupid major. After that Fantine must find job to support her child, Cosette who live at .. (like hotel), then she work as slut and she sick. Then Jean Valjean took care her to the hospital in the rest of her life. And Fantine told about Cossete and Jean Valjean promised to find Cossete and he would take care. Jean find Cossete and brought her in his escape from Javert. Day by day until movement in the barricades, in street Cossete teenage glances with Marius. They were falling in love at the first sight. But Javert was there too! Usual, Jean and Cossete run and run and Marius lose her. At the barricades, Marius send a letters to Cossete by Gavroche. Jean read it, and he went to barricades when the revolution begun. Javert as a fake volunteer was arrested by revolutionary fighters. But Jean let Javert go for some reason. Javert really confused but he must find Jean again and bring him back to prisoner because Javert was the law. When the cannon fired, shooting, and bloods everywhere, Marius was fainted. Jean direct took Marius body and hide from the barricade. When he brought the body Jean met Javert again. But for some reason Javert let it go. And Javert confused, and break the law, in the top of building Javert suicide with jumped to the river. After that Marius and Cosette married but Jean disappear from Cossete. But Marius find where is Jean be. Marius and Cossete went to the church and met Jean at rest of his life. When Fantine 'pick up' Jean to the heaven, and there is some picture revolutionary fighters that they succeeded in changing the French from the past. And they were sang from the barricade.

And because this film, i get crush on Amanda Seyfried x) she totally play her character!

The point is this movie recommended to watch! 