This film is one of my favorite films of all time. It's incredible writing, acting, direction, costumes, set design, music, atmosphere, and portrayal make it a marvelous masterpiece. As much as people complain about the historical inaccuracy in this film, there's a lot of stuff they get right. For example, Mozart did have a troubled financial situation and connection with his father. He also did have a masked man ask him to write a requiem, and did work himself towards exhaustion, dying from it. He did behave like a child as an adult, having too strict of a childhood. And even thought it doesn't get every aspect right, the movie captures the impact of Mozart, the feel of Mozart, and the achievements and failures of Mozart.

Tom Hulce as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is one of my favorite performances ever in a film. The script gives a lot to work with, and he takes full advantage of it. He just puts so much heart and passion into his role, but not to a point where he's overacting. He fully embraces everything that is Mozart: his foolishness, his charisma, his intensity, his animated feel, his strong love towards music, and his hardworking side. He never loses my interest.

In addition to that, F. Murray Abraham is also incredible as Antonio Salieri. When I watched him for the first time, I thought that was a different person playing the older Salieri. But it wasn't just the incredible make-up, it was also Abraham. He spoke like a different person, acted like a different person. That is a great example of totally disappearing into a role. And as his younger self, he impeccably demonstrates his jealousy, ambition, anger, and cunning personality that makes us really invested in this person and seeing what he goes through.

And the other side actors also give A+ performances. The choices of songs they use in this song are perfectly selected. This movie made me love Mozart's music. Before that, some of the songs I listened to by Mozart I thought were fine, but not great. But not only did the soundtrack get me wrapped up in his music, it also just made me appreciate his work. I was fascinated by his life, how he was so misunderstood, how complex and troubled he was, but just how much love and how much life he brought to his passion.

A quick warning though: if you want to watch it, don't buy the director's cut, buy the original theatrical release. It's much better and the director's cut includes scenes I really didn't think benefited the film. My review is based on the theatrical release.

See this masterpiece if you haven't already. It's a spectacle to behold. 