The Matrix Revolutions (2003) is very underrated trilogy of the mythology to understand. I know for a lot of people is not that good and it is terrible movie to watch. The first time I watch it, I couldn't finish it because I did not understand it and I felt bored with the movie. The second time I kept watching I just enjoyed the movie and I wanted to know more, what will happen next. I think the movie end perfectly the trilogy, tough it did lack on a story and on the action, there very barely in it, that it was in the original and the second movie. The movie it self's focus more on the humans and the battles against the machines on the planet Zion, more than they are in the phone line of Matrix. I think this was a brilliant end to a brilliant trilogy. If you didn't understand what the matrix was by the end of the film, then you're never going to get it!

Many viewers preferred Revolutions to Reloaded, thinking it was a simpler, more straight-ahead action movie. Though it may have appeared that way, nothing could be further from the truth. Revolutions was a mind-blowing layered ending that honored and respected the plot threads and themes introduced in the first two movies. The character arcs were satisfying and true to the characters introduced in The Matrix. The creators continued to challenge our understanding of the Matrix and its purpose, avoiding the temptation to serve us a bunch of "their" answers on a platter. That, to us, would have been a sellout of the vision they've been constructing, and wouldn't have been fair to us. Nor would it have been true to the spirit of the previous movies - they've never told us what things meant, they've only shown us the door.

Everything that has a beginning has an end. In this explosive final chapter of the Matrix trilogy, Neo, Morpheus and Trinity battle to defend Zion, the last real-world city, against the onslaught of the machines that have enslaved the human race. And, now as Neo learns more about his heroic powers--including the ability to see the codes of things and the people, he faces the consequences of the choice made in The Matrix Reloaded. For Neo, that means going where no human has dared - into the heart of Machine City and into a cataclysmic showdown with the exponentially more powerful renegade program Smith. The revolution is now: The Matrix Revolutions.

I wish they made more films about the Matrix. The fighting, story and the conspiracy theories that emerged from these movies created a new world for millions of people out there. Some of the conspiracy theories even created a new "religion", the CGI was at the time freaking impressive, the fighting in slow-mo were even more epic and the story itself captured a lot of hearts. Just saying to all who think this movie (and/or the first two) sucked balls,- you are a minority. Movie is great, second one being the best in the trilogy. It is my second favorite film in the trilogy because it ends the story and answers what happened with Neo (Keanu Reeves), he saved Whole planet and defeat Smith (Hugo Weaving) on the end of the movie. This movie may not be the best in storyline, but hell it knows how to make action! That end fight and emotional ending leaving behind a plot for sequel?...Second really expanded the meaning of matrix and the whole idea so I don't understand the hate.

There is a lot of memorable moments the Smith vs Neo climax rain scene is one of my favorite movies scenes of all time. Anyway I love this movie it is not good as the greatest or the best movie or that good, but it is still a worthy sequel to watch and a good end to the trilogy. I am giving this 8/10 and only because one of the characters dies in this movie not telling which one.

The Matrix Revolutions is a 2003 American science fiction action film and the third installment of the Matrix trilogy. The film was released six months following The Matrix Reloaded. The film was written and directed by The Wachowskis and released simultaneously in 60 countries on November 5, 2003. While it is the final film in the series, the Matrix storyline is continued in The Matrix Online.

8/10 Grade: A- Studio: Warner Bros. Roadshow Entertainment Starring: Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, Jada Pinkett Smith, Monica Bellucci, Harry J. Lennix Director: The Wachowskis Producer: Joel Silver Screenplay: The Wachowskis Rated: R Running Time: 2 Hr. 09 Mins. Budget: $110.000.000 Box Office: $412,000,000 