Picking up right we left in Reloaded, the machines are about to breach upon Zion, Neo is in a mysterious coma stuck between the matrix and the real world, Zion's defenses are being prepared, and finally Bane awakens; but in a very hostile manner. When Neo awakens too, he realises that he has to confront the source of the matrix and finally confront Agent Smith if Zion and all the people to survive. While he and Trinity both go to the Machine City, the others; Morpheus, Link, Niobi and the crew of the Hammer go back to Zion to help its defenses. Inside the dock of Zion, its an all out war. The machine diggers have breached the walls and thousands of sentinels are ready to kill all its inhabitants.

The Matrix Revolutions is an all out action packed, visually amazing climatic conclusion to the matrix trilogy. The war of Zion is just amazing, the sentinels moving together as one being is just a sight to see. The action just keeps coming at a relentless pace. The chase of The Hammer ship being crawled over by hundreds of sentinels is also an amazing sequence. The Machine City is so detailed and has a real haunting presence with all the blue hues. The highlight of the film which everyone was waiting for is the final explosive showdown between Neo and Smith. While its a fight to remember, the only annoying part of the fight is when Neo and Smith start fighting in the sky and start flying around the place. It really took away from the intensity and over all impact of the fight.

The visual effects are flawless, they are just so integrated that its hard to pick faults in them. Yet they do take away from the story. All the action and effects side step the narrative, making the plotting confusing at times. The fighting has also seem to lost that nobility from the first matrix, going for more style, losing that emotional core. The acting from everyone is very good, though abit over acted in places, but overall very good from all people. One part that didn't really need explaining though was the change in actor for The Oracle. Mary Alice who took over the role when Gloria Foster sadly died. It seemed pointless that they needed to explain why she looked different, adding confusion unless you've played the matrix game.

The Matrix Revolutions is a great conclusion to this trilogy and will become a sci-fi classic in the years to come. 