I saw Les Miserables on Broadway some years ago and had very mixed feelings about it. The production had some emotional power: the funny scenes were funny, the sad scenes were sad, the stirring scenes were generally stirring. That said, I decided I didn't like the musical because I simply don't like the plot. I haven't read the original story, I hasten to add -- maybe it was better as literature. But the plot of the musical is hard to buy into. The main characters make a habit of doing things that make no sense. They are self-destructive in a way that seems to be almost like an ancient Greek drama: the Fates have decreed that so-and-so must suffer, and so suffer he shall. On and on, for his whole life. And his children's children unto the seventh generation.

The plot aspects dealing with the short-lived 1833 revolution really don't work for me. This was one of many French mini-revolutions that seems (at least to a non-Frenchman) to have been about nothing in particular and accomplishes nothing in particular.

Now on to the movie version. I give some points to the producers for attempting to get a live feel to the performances. It is a conversion of a stage play, after all. Still, I don't think the effort really works. The camera angles are all wrong, and made me feel cramped and dirty. I don't really want to enter that world viscerally, I guess.

Much has been made of the fact that the performers were basically film actors rather than stage performers. I don't think that's necessarily a disqualifier, but it does create problems. Singing on pitch is only part of the challenge, after all. The singer's art also encompasses feeling and nuance. The skills required to do that on film don't always correspond to what it takes on stage. In any event, the singing just didn't work for me in this version. When you decide to film a production in which every word is sung, that's a problem.

The combination of not really liking the story combined with the flaws in presentation chased me from my seat about an hour in. Came back to pick up the rest of the family when it was over and they generally wished they had fled early with me.

If you really love the stage version and you can tolerate second or third tier vocal performances you may want to see this. Otherwise I can't think of any reason to bother. 