Oh Christ I've been dreading this, The Phantom Menace is both an insult to the fan-base of Star Wars and to general movie fans in general. To be honest, I don't even know where to begin ... BUT before I start there's maybe two or three things I liked about The Phantom Menace. For a start Ray Park as Darth Maul is one of the most bad ass characters to come out or Star Wars at all, even If he got cut in half way too soon. Also as per usual with Star Wars, John Williams's work in this movie's soundtrack is, awesome. And last and I'm not even sure, If It's least but the fact that Ian McDiarmid was able to come back to the role of Palpatine is a triumph for the series as a whole. Now that all the good parts are talked about, Star Wars Episode I is a bloated CGI mess of George Lucas's mind. And you know what, Jake Lloyd is annoying as little Anakin, the CGI is damn near insulting but ... nothing in this movie is as bad ass Jar Jar Binks, he is literally the worst thing to have ever come out of cinema. Period. And I've seen Battlefield Earth. And to be honest I could spend hours talking about how terrible Binks is but one more thing I have to talk about is the mistreatment of Ewan McGreggor and Liam Neeson in this movie. It's commonly agreed upon that Ewan McGreggor was the best thing about the prequel trilogy but in this movie he's given the worst dialogue and is humiliated whenever he's on screen and as is Liam Neeson who sadly doesn't even get a chance to make up for his character. The supporting cast of this movie puts great actors in all the wrong places, Terrence Stamp is a politician that gets 5 minutes of screen time, Sam Jackson is a quiet diplomat and Brian Blessed ... actually Blessed is a welcome relief as Boss Nass but most surprisingly, the one actor I don't mind in this movie is Natalie Portman playing Padme a.k.a Queen Amidala, she's kind and caring yet she also takes no crap from anyone ... It's just a shame that all fell apart in future movies. But I honestly could go on and on about The Phantom Menace but in short, It's a terrible movie but If you dig really hard, there are some things good about it. 