I would give it a 10/10 just because I'm such a die hard Les Mis fan, except a few things I can't stand about this version, and so I have to take off a point.

First, I can't put into words how incredibly annoyed I am at how the best people they've cast were ensembles. However, I do understand that in order to get people besides musical fans to see it, they needed big names as mains.

Hugh Jackman...everyone's praising him and I don't see why. He's a great actor, but a singer? His vibrato is really annoying and his voice is quite nasally when singing the high notes, and honestly, they could've cast better. Also, Suddenly was a really unnecessary addition to the movie that I didn't understand. Why not remove that 60 seconds of irrelevant song and let Courfeyrac sing his bit in Red and Black, or let R have his incredibly meaningful solo in Drink With Me?

Anne Hathaway surprised me(in a good way), but she went from a healthy factory woman to a shriveled up prostitute in about thirty seconds. Since the movie version followed the book much better than the actual musical and there was the detail of camera, they should've made Anne look sickly from the beginning: because she's already quite sick and already dying by the time she's at the factory.

Samantha Barks(Eponine), George Blagden(Grantaire/R), Aaron Tviet(Enjolras), and Daniel Huttlestone(Gavroche) were the reasons I went to see this...I know, you non Mizzies are going, who? But they're probably the only ones who would be at all okay on a stage version(while addressing the leads, basically all the ensemble are Broadway/West End stars already--including the original Valjean and Eponine). I was so upset that George wasn't able to have his shining moment in Drink With Me: probably the most meaningful and emotional solo from the Les Amis/barricade boys. Sam was amazing, as always, but very very "diluted" probably because the female "stars" of the film are supposed to be Anne and Amanda, but Sam is better than both of them so they had to make her look worse...Aaron was great, but I feel like they turned down his vocals or something? He has a really powerful belt, sort of like Ramin Karimloo, but it just didn't seem as powerful as it usually is. Daniel was really good, I just sort of got confused when they completely changed his second solo in Look Down, although it makes sense why they changed it.

Since this followed the book so well, I really was disappointed that they didn't have Grantaire ask "Do you permit it?" as he and Enjolras died(and they didn't have Aaron/Enjolras "press his hand with a smile"), and also I wish they'd added the bit where Eponine reveals that Gavroche is her brother--it seriously would've tacked on maybe, a minute of time? The real heartbreaking scene was when Javert put the pin on Gavroche and the background music was playing the line from Bring Him Home "he's like the son I might have known if God had granted me a son."

I know they had to promote Anne and Hugh...but honestly, the real stars of the cast were Sam, Dan, Aaron, Eddie, and George. 