 Okay... the first time i saw "Les Miserables" i didn't like it so much... well, i'm going to be honest i hate it. I was eight years old i think, and my father told me that i have to see it, and that was all. But then i saw it again, the last year and i thought it was really good. The characterization was excellent and all the set and the special effects was fascinating. The film is partitioned by three parts, so i'm going to go part by part. Te first part is about Jean ValJean, who is a prisoner in the old France, and the policeman, whose name is Javert. Javert give the conditional to ValJean, who's going to be constrained by those papers all his life. He know that he can't be free at all with those papers so he decided to broke them and start a new life. Personally i find this part a little bit boring, but i think is necessary to understand the rest of the history so it's okay. In the second part ValJean starts his life as mayor of the town. He is totally different but soon Javert discover that he's the prisoner ho broke his parole, so he starts to seek ValJean to see him again at prison. At the same time ValJean starts to meet more characters of the film, like Fantine, or her daughter Cosette. This part is more interesting than the last, cause you know more characters and the history start to have sense. And in the third part, you know the rest of the characters like Enjorlas, the lead of the revolutionaries; Marius, who's in love with Cosette; Eponine, who's smitten of Marius, or Gavroche, who is a boy who goes to the barricades with the revolutionaries being like an adult boy. In this part you are totally enmeshed in the film and yo feel like you are in the barricades with all this people fighting for the freedom. In conclusion I think this film is full of emotions and all the type of feelings: sadness, happiness, euphoria... and i thin that all the people who like to laugh, or the love, the tragedy or the belligerent conflicts have to see this film. It was simply perfect. 