Not a very positive attitude to Louis Leterrier. In all his paintings, Awesome desire to cut the money simply striking. Although he began well. His "Transporter 2" was a good fighter. Then Louis switched to comics and took "Incredible Hulk", which, unfortunately, I dislike. Why dislike? Because the film does not pull on comics, he was dull, gloomy, and one-time, but for the cast to improve cost estimation and forget about the plot and stuff. And now the "Clash of the Titans, a film about the war gods and men, well, of course, in 3D. The cast of the first magnitude. Here and Sam Worthington, Liam Neeson, Ralph Fiennes and Danny Huston. The very idea is good and the actors too, but why should not I like? Let me explain.

The first forty minutes, I liked it, plenty of action, special effects, etc. But then it is so annoying, one action, it's just get bored. Actors themselves sometimes overplayed. Everything is their beautiful camera angles, nice scenery and, of course, 3D. Louis Leterrier planned to make a blockbuster, but not even thought about the plot. The film only lasts for actors and annoying special effects, well unless we have not seen enough? And why such a pathetic name? By title, I thought that the gods would fight with each other, but I got endless trip to the crabs for a horizontal mountains and deserts. And in general, popular actors themselves say something just a couple of phrases in the movie and all, well, then disappear and finally say something pathetic. If even shoot a blockbuster about the gods, we must just think about the story, so everything was like in history, not to push any crabs in 3D. Even for the sake of the actors do not want to overstate the estimate. The film boring, insipid. But what can I say, a movie with absolutely no soul. The fact that he filmed for the money, it is evident, Jonathan Libesmen lift a decent sequel, his films with a soul, he knows how to make blockbusters and at the same time he thinks about the plot, and not dully shoves 3D and the cast of the first magnitude. Wait, certainly will be better than the original. 