Another point is proved with this film. Hollywood has no more ideas for a decent film! So, let's remake some. And we pick good old "Clash of the Titans" (1981), the classic adventure film, with greatly adapted characters and story from Greek mythology. I mean, so many things about this old movie was good, I watched it as a kid, and I was blown away, especially by Ray Harryhausen's stop-motion monsters, his Medusa... scary... his Kraken... amazing... the music score was astonishing. But this remake... well here goes...

Story is entirely different, well let's be blunt and short. The story, characters and special effects were modified for a today's audience, I mean, you can't argue with that fact. But, it also doesn't mean that is good. Now, This is extremely expensive film, and what is it exactly? An abundance of CGI, nothing more. The movie's runtime is an hour and 20 minutes... I expected something like... two and a half hours, but we just got a fast film that is filled with special effects, that's just it. No emotions, here's bunch of computer effects and they were good... but sucked. The CGI was sooo... artificial, and when I remember the stop-motion from old version... that was freaking real! It was there, simply it was there. But these... damn! Now, a star Sam Worthington, well he was not all that bad, but he constantly speaks in some low tones and, honestly he can do more than that, come on man, you're not Steven Seagal, free that voice of yours! Liam Neeson as Zeus? Well, pretty cool, if you ask me. But still, again in some father like role... Ralph Fiennes as Hades? Good, he was OK. But, when I heard that James Woods showed interest to play Hades in live action film... I thought... that would be a joke. Alexa Davalos as Andromeda... good, she was OK, haven't seen her in long time. Gemma Arterton as Io? Who's she? She was not needed. Waste of time character. Jason Flemyng as Calibos? He is a good actor, but I expected someone bigger and more menacing. This Calibos is nothing but a berserk monster, the original one was more scary and commanding... Mads Mikkelsen, Danny Houston and Luke Evans perhaps... well they were OK in their own terrain...

Now, other things as costumes and music score, those were OK, perhaps two things that worth in this film. And Pete Postlehwaite, one of his last films, RIP Pete, he was one of the best.

So, if you want, watch it. Don't listen to me. And one more thing, I won't deny that I enjoyed in adventure. 