As someone who usually strays completely away from musical films, I stepped into the local Las Vegas movie theater on opening day to witness what makes this movie rise on a grand scale from its original stage production. When I did, the songs were incredible and the story was filled with drama, suspense, and humorous moments provided by funny guy Sacha Baron Cohen and Helena Bonham Carter (reunited since the 2007 musical Sweeney Todd).

The story about recently-released prisoner Jean Valjean restarting his life anew in 1815 France, only to encounter various people along the way that affects him and those people greatly as years progress. The most notable person he comes across is the virtuous Fantine who tells him to find her daughter Cosette and care for her as her final dying wish. Jean raises her, but things become more complicated as rebels in France begin a revolution causing unrest. At the same time love, trust, and betrayal roll in as well.

With so much to say about 2012's Les Miserables, I find this an exceptional musical. The time and setting usually doesn't sit well with me, but none of it mattered when I kept my eyes and ears open to the cast themselves. Hugh Jackman delivered such a radiant performance as lead character Jean Valjean. Anne Hathaway was superb in belting out her rendition of "I Dreamed A Dream" while Russell Crowe's portrayal of Jean's pursuer Javert was done incredibly well with own singing performance. Samantha Barks did splendidly well as Eponine as the love rival to Amanda Seyfried's Cosette for Eddie Redmayne's Marius. But I say that the real show stealers goes to the kids themselves. Daniel Huttlestone had spunk and wittiness as young rebel boy Gavroche and Isabelle Allen's portrayal of young Cosette was pretty spot-on. Her singing displayed innocence and a longing to be loved. These kids really captured my attention!

I can now see why musical films are usually not looked upon widely by some avid filmgoers, but they have no idea what they're missing if they don't catch it. With Anne Hathaway's Oscar win for Best Supporting Actress and the riveting performance of the songs "Suddenly" and "Do You Hear the People Sing?" were quite phenomenal. A nod to the original production of Les Mis is seen in the local church's Bishop (played by Colm Wilkinson) at the beginning of the film, which is a nice touch. I was clearly sold when it all ended. By far, the best of director Tom Hooper's work. 