In my humble opinion, this is quite simply the greatest musical ever made. It not my favourite, that honour goes to the Burt Reynolds and Dolly Parton movie 'The Best Little Whorehouse In Texas' but this is a beer movie. I love it. Everything about this movie is perfect.

Plot In A Paragraph: After breaking the rules of his parole, ex-convict Jean Valjean, becomes mayor of a town and a factory owner, whilst staying one step ahead of Police Inspector Javert. One of the factory workers, Fantine, blames him for her being cast into a life of prostitution. He feels responsible and agrees to take care of her daughter, Cosette. Later they are swept up in the Paris Uprising of 1832.

I can't praise the cast enough of this movie enough here. Hugh Jackman is always reliable, but here he is truly awesome. To put it bluntly, no actor could have done a better job than Hackman in playing Jean Valjean. As good as Daniel Day Lewis was in 'Lincoln' I think Hackman should have got the Oscar for Best Actor that year. One who did get the Oscar she deserved was Anne Hathaway for her performance of Fantine

Russell Crowe who I'm not a fan of, is excellent as Javert. Helena Bonham Carter is perfectly cast as Madame Thenardier, whilst Sasha Baron Cohen is a lot of fun as her husband "The Master Of The House" Eddie Redmayne is superb as Marius. His performance of "Empty Seats At Empty Tables" is nothing short of breathtaking. Aaron Tveit gives a sterling performance as Enjolras, whilst Daniel Huttlestone is a scene stealing Gavroche, who just about steals the film. Huttlestone would have stolen the full movie if were not for Samantha Barks stunning portrayal of Eponine.

Barks plays Eponine with such sweetness, grace, and sadness that it is hard to imagine anyone else in the role, she is heartbreakingly beautiful. Her hauntingly beautiful performance of "On My Own" is my favourite of the full movie. And that is saying something as it is filled with songs both beautiful and catchy. I could spend another five paragraphs singing the praises of Barks. But I'll stop here. I'll definitely be looking out for her in the future. Any movie becomes promising just by having her name in it's cast.

A good movie for me is one that does not end with the credits. And believe me this movie will stay with you long after the finale. 