A trip into the bizarre world of people who demand a "yes" when they make a request -- or someone or something you love will die.

Marlon Brando creates an unforgettable character in Don Corleone, the patriarch and "godfather" of a New York crime family that thrives on such enterprises as gambling and prostitution.

Corleone lives in a world of quid pro quo -- if he does you a favor, and one day wants a "service" from you, you must drop everything and do exactly as he wants or you will probably lose your life.

The movie opens at the lavish wedding of Corleone's only daughter, Connie (Talia Shire, a sister of director Francis Ford Coppola). Various judges and politicians who had been invited are not in attendance, but they have sent gifts. The heyday of the don is on the wane and big questions arise as to how the future will turn out.

When drug kingpin Sollozzo (Al Lettieri) invites the Godfather to get involved in the highly lucrative drug trade, Corleone commits the act that he refuses everybody else -- he says no. Perhaps this is another sign that the don's glory days are over. Did he really believe that he could get away with his refusal? A mafia war ensues that doesn't end until there's a new crime king in place -- the Don's youngest son, Michael (Al Pacino).

"The Godfather" beautifully creates the arc of Michael's evolution as a thug. He starts out as the family's first college graduate, a decorated hero returning from World War II. Michael openly describes the strong-arm tactics of his family to the girlfriend he has brought to the wedding. "That's my family, Kay (Diane Keaton). That's not me."

However, the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. And, once the Don is riddled with bullets one day while picking out some fruit at a neighborhood stand, Michael begins taking the reins, beginning somewhat tentatively when he guns down Sollazzo while dining with him at an Italian restaurant and gaining sangfroid and confidence to the point he orchestrates the assassinations of all the Corleone's enemies in one fell swoop while he is "standing godfather" to Connie's first child and renouncing Satan as part of a baptism ritual.

The Corleones have some good, old-fashioned values but they take them to extremes. Sure, it's good to ask nicely for what you want. However, when someone like Hollywood studio mogul Jack Woltz (John Marley) says no to an offer to make an undeserving Corleone protege the star of a film, Woltz wakes up the next morning next to the severed head of his prize racehorse.

The Corleones don't believe in such elements of the social contract as waiting your turn, picking your battles, and using reason to avoid murder (as when Michael assures his turncoat brother-in-law Carlo (Gianni Russo)-- "Please, Mike, don't do this" -- that he wouldn't have him killed. "You think I'd make a sister a widow? I'm godfather to your son, Carlo." Yet, in the very next frame, he has the traitor garroted in the car that was to ferry him to the airport and a new life in Las Vegas.

The Corleones abhor dissent and any airing of the family's dirty laundry. Their marriages are portraits of dysfunction: women and children reap the benefits of ill-gotten gains but never speak of them. Son Santino (James Caan) is a violent philanderer. Michael, after having returned to the US and married his girlfriend Kay, blatantly lies to her in denying that he is responsible for the murder of Carlo.

A beautiful interlude in Sicily, to which Michael flees after the restaurant shoot-out, serves as a kind of intermission. There, Michael experiences the "thunderbolt" of falling in sudden love with a traditional local girl, whose father he strong-arms into allowing a courtship that culminates in marriage, treachery, and murder. Michael never says a word, but subsequently returns to New York. The scene seems a little commentary on the transitory nature of happiness: At any moment, it can blow up in your face.

"The Godfather" seems perfectly cast, filmed, and performed. Accompanied by one of the all-time best film scores, by Nino Roti. 