As the trilogy came to an close, the viewers were looking for the supreme ending. An edge-breaker. A new dimension to film making so to speak. One film to rule them all, well, rule LOTR's anyway! And, as a matter of fact, they got it. But did anyone take notice of it? No! Why? Simple. Because there wasn't enough "action". Am I missing something? Fair enough, the ending has all the passion and finesse of a one legged duck holding a toilet brush. But aside from that; what was the big problem? People mostly complain about the film being rushed, and fair play to them it was. But does that mean that the storyline has suffered dramatically? The only major reason that I can think of to explain people's distaste to this film is the simple fact that they do not understand it. Now, with all honesty, I too believe that the plot and tone of this film would feel more at home in an episode of a gardening show hosted by some washed up 80's actor who hasn't worked for years and mostly lives on a healthy diet of Big Macs and toe nail clippings. But nevertheless the story is compelling and near impossible to turn away from until you can just catch a grasp of the meaning before it is ultimately pulled away from your clutches. This is the reason why many people turn back to this film with enjoyment and love for the work put into it. It might look like The Wachowski Brothers ran through this film faster than curry and lager run through you on a Sunday morning, giving us the main reason as to why the story makes almost no sense whatsoever! But no, the reason why it is so complicated is why it is so beautiful... The reason for the bad ending is to divert us from the real questions: What really is The Matrix? Is Neo only one of a kind? Did the creator of the Matrix merely lie to Neo to catch him off guard? Do the machines really know what is going on? When a Sentinel appears on screen, why do I always have the urge to go buy some Calamari? All in all, the movie isn't rushed, in fact it is cleverly designed to make us believe the uncertainties. Well, that must've made more sense than why the Oracle changes into a different person......hmm.... 