Avatar is a story about an ex paraplegic marine, Jake Sully (Sam Worthington), who has to replace his late brother in a mission on the distant planet of Pandora. His mission is to infiltrate the native colony of the Na'vi through the use of an avatar. His mission is to earn the trust of the Na'vi and convince them to resettle so that the greedy corporation can obtain possession of a precious ore under their settlement. When he disagrees with his orders he must choose between his mission and his new-found place among the Na'vi. In the end, he fights for what he believes in, siding with the natives. Avatar was a highly-anticipated film because of the high budget and new techniques used with 3D and CGI. James Cameron used new technology along with new filming techniques hand n hand to develop a new movie experience. He delivered a film with never before used technology allowing for great advancement in the film industry. He was able to see in real time the actors in the digital world and make adjustments accordingly allowing for better motion and action capture within each scene. Lighting Techniques played a major role in giving life and realism to the jungle that is Pandora. Even though Pandora is computer generated Fiore used lighting to breathe life into an animated world illuminating all the qualities of the beautiful nature Pandora has to offer. By creating realistic lighting shining down into the nature surrounding the actors and highlighting the natural beauty around theme Fiore created some of the most vibrant and mesmerizing images of a virtual jungle.

There can be said there are many themes within the film Avatar, but the most prevalent would be the threat of modernization against nature. Another film with a similar theme is Disney's Pocahontas. In Pocahontas, this theme is not overly shadowed and meddled by the time restraint and simplicity of the story line so it is better understood. John Smith is sent to scope out a native colony for another precious metal gold on behalf of the English empire.

The combination of the 3D and CGI technology, used by Cameron, and the pristine lighting techniques created by Fiore allowed Pandora to come alive in in the minds of the audience. The audience is submerged into a world full of beautiful nature that is Pandora. If these elements did not come together than the theme would not be as effective on the audience because the setting would be too unrealistic. 