Perhaps the most unfairly maligned film ever made, The Phantom Menace was more or less my entryway into Star Wars as a child. Sure, I had already seen the Original Trilogy, but the series as a whole didn't really grab me until I watched The Phantom Menace, which ended up being my favorite movie for the majority of my childhood years. I'm not alone in this though, I know many a person from my particular generation who have echoed similar sentiments about Phantom Menace specifically, which, if anything, indicates that the movie must have done something very right. Which, I would argue, it did. Out of all six Star Wars movies, none of them exceed Episode I as a sheer showcase of imaginative power. From the stunningly designed palaces of Naboo, to the undersea depths of Otoh Gunga to the mind-blowingly dense expanse of the Coruscant skyline, no Star Wars movie does better than Phantom in it's power to create jaw-droppingly, perfectly realized worlds and cultures. For what may be the first time in the series' history (with no offense intended towards the Original Trilogy), Lucas's universe feels like more than a colorful backdrop to blaster-slinging antics. It feels fully-realized here, functioning, purposeful. There's an added dimension of life that Phantom specifically created for Star Wars and the universe is forever better off for it.

Beyond the world-building, Phantom Menace also begins to weave the incredibly intricate story tapestry that would ultimately blossom into the Prequel Trilogy, little seeds of story are planted and patiently left for future movies throughout Episode I, a testament to the highly undervalued and misunderstood storytelling abilities of George Lucas. Ironically, despite the generalized (and misguided) disdain for The Phantom Menace, it's imagery endures as some of the most iconic in the Star Wars canon. From deep-sea monster-chases to pod-racing to the film's incredibly fun and bombastic finale, Phantom Menace is instantly recognizable and unique. The climactic "Duel of the Fates" between Qui-Gon, Obi-Wan and Darth Maul being one of, if not the most iconic fight sequence in cinematic history. At the end of the day, Phantom Menace may not be a flawless picture but it's ambition and imaginative power put the overwhelming majority of blockbuster films to shame. Episode I captured the imaginations of an entire generation of children who grew to become avid Star Wars fans, and that is a legacy that even the most acidic, jaded "fanboy" can't erase. 