this review may also contain spoiler for " The Elephant Man " so .........

I think i was lucky to watch these two movies respectively :" The elephant man " & " Amadeus "

First, " The Elephant Man " which seems to anyone who reads it that it's not such a pleasant nickname to have , unless you're a very big and strong fellow.But the elephant man wasn't even that strong to defend himself or even walk well. His only weapon was his ugliness. This also didn't stop all people from using him like a performing monkey. He was homeless and ugly, still satisfied with how he looked like and created excuses for his mother who left him as a baby monster. He was also proud that she was beautiful unlike him showing her picture to anyone he liked. He was poor and lived most of his life in the slums, also a man of fine taste and talent.

Then, there's " Amadeus " it's mozart's middle name and it means god's beloved and we can say it's a reason for salieri to envy mozart whenever he says his name. Where we can see salieri drowning in his own sea of envy and hatred wondering why god chose mozart to have this great gift and to be his instrument. Wondering if god denied him the talent why he gave him the longing. He justified that he just wanted to praise god with music of his own even if it was just one piece of true music. But what if god just don't want to be praised by you. If god denies you a talent, it's never a reason for you to envy and hate all the talented people. God gave him a lot. Why did he insist on this one thing? Look at what salieri had. He became the emperor's court composer. He had fine wealth and servants. He was loved by most people as he said until mozart came and took their love.

What i want to say is there are lots of people living among us are like the elephant man and salieri. We mustn't judge none of them by their looks. And of course the elephant man kind of people doesn't always has to mean only ugliness, there are more than ugliness that isolate them from the society. We all know these people whom we call freaks, nerds or schmucks. Well, most of them are freaks but sometimes if we knew them quite good, the truth would be a lot different. And for you, so you never can turn to be a salieri person, you must remind yourself every time you wake up in the morning with what gifts god gave you. Instead of forgetting all these gifts praying for one that will never come. 