Confused between having to give it a very low rating or a very high one and with hundreds of reviews written before mine, I still want to make a few points. Maybe it would help out someone:

1- Biographically: I've read that the real John Nash had an entirely different story. Please tell me would you take the history and life of a man and change it entirely, deceiving a lot of people and mutilating history to make a movie ?! Couldn't you change the names and say that it was "inspired" bu a true story ?! Was it that hard or was it not at appealing and interesting ?! So I agree with everyone out here bashing out this movie for being that inaccurate and deceiving.

2- Regarding the fictional love story: it was a little real. When you love someone with all your heart and senses, Hollywood -in a lot of other movies- would be selling you lies. The reality is that even the most romantic couples with the most beautiful love stories ever suffer a lot, fight but stick around. So, it was to some degree realistic.

3- Regarding the mental illness: I've had a share in my life of watching and suffering from mental and psychological disorders.

Some people here say it was very unrealistic and a fairy tale. Those people didn't pay enough attention to a lot of details in the movie like the baby who would drown or the people making fun of the professor. So I disagree, it showed much truth, although not in every aspect.

There's a very important aspect that was very disrespected in the movie: the Psychiatrist's image and the medications, which I overlooked because that might be the case with some of the patients who weren't taught how medications would help or have had experiences with bad psychiatrists.

A point I found ridiculous and offensive to a great extent, however, was how mental illnesses were portrayed as if a patient with some strong will would overcome them without hospitalization, psychiatric help or medication, just his "heart" as pointed by the wife in the movie. This was utterly stupid, this is a disease who sick people should be taught how to cope with, or in other words, a state of mind that you have to learn to live with.

However, there's a very important aspect clarified here: disorders are not things you have to get rid of or cure, rather than states of mind or in other words, chronic cases, medication should help in some cases, therapy would help greatly too in a lot of cases, and you have to cope with it. Pain makes the most beautiful and the wisest people as I have seen in my life, especially mental and psychological pain, and if the patient/individual knew how to learn from it.

4- Technical Details: The acting was marvelous and the soundtrack stood out. The direction overall could have been a little better and of course, the writing is really criticized for all the deception.

Overall, a movie recommended and shows a lot of reality for some people, but is a sorrow to see it transform true people's stories into fabrications. 