it is my first time to watch a movie about music (not musical). this movie more likely a combination of drama-biography with music aroma. i didn't know too much about Mozart, all i know he was a rare-borned human whose can see the world as a "tone language". but i really enjoy this movie, and this movie was one kind of movie (ex: 2001:ASO) that i can re-watch it over and over without losing my interest even a small piece.

the first scene not attract me too much. it starts with a dark screenplay style, a confession of a man who killed Mozart, then he turns out crazy. i just said "wow, not bad at all, this movie has a flow-back-and-forth plot, i some kind like that plot anyway". then, in the prison (for mental-sickness) the story untold, and a long journey of our music-legend man has began !

the storyline really interesting, not losing it's grip until the end, it is light but entertaining also casual. these what make this movie great. this movie also enjoyable to any age-range and have a rich story. i personally tough this movie is the best in it's genre (biography) by far.

Mozart character played really good, i mean near the highest potential and of course im not saying the act was bad, but not the greatest. i even mesmerized by Mozart character. it is amaze me, it's like im get into the movie to witness it. i don't know if this really true from the historical aspect or not, but as far i can say, Mozart is a unique character and it's like i can also feel the envy that coming to the Salieri. this movie mesmerizing.

the set also beyond average. decoration is beautiful. it is old- kingdom and old-fashion set but interesting in the eye. the castle, Mozart's house, inside the kingdom, and the environment of Vienna. it show us Vienna in 19th century really convincing and i wanna sucked into the movie to witness and enjoy it. the decoration-set as i know, was the best two of all movies i watch (right below once upon a time in America).the costume-design really supports the greatness of it's decoration.

all i can say for who read this, this movie is excellent. maybe not have a good cinematography as citizen kane or apocalypse now, but it is very entertaining from the other aspects. one of my 25 favorites. 10/10 thanks for the readers 