Just like my several previous reviews, personally I am very sensitive with humanity. All I see and absorb is in human's view. Again, human as a truly human. Not just the physical appearance, a bunch of talent, or even the incapability. Human is indeed the conscience itself, the feeling of empathy, or we can say the very soul of human. It is connected with characterization of the movie. The more "human" the character is, it indicates the rate of the movie. But, that's technical. In addition, the biography-movie must have very strong character and improvisation. And, "Amadeus" drives away the human value in a delightful way.

Of course, nobody will not expect what a vulgar man Mozart would be. We just live in a different era with him. The movie just capture the reflection of Mozart by his letter, so we can enjoy Mozart that has peculiar personality. I give applause for Tom Hulce, he gave his best for this monumental role. A strong protagonist combined with the stronger antagonist, just make the complication feels so perfect. How wonderful F. Murray Abraham act for this cinema. He deserved the Oscar, without a doubt. The feature simply about two sides of the paradigm, we can understand how Mozart and his rival, Salieri, defines how they walk their life. You know, it's just make me realized, that even the talented man like Mozart, still had so many classic problems, like family, economics, or relationship. Meanwhile, Forman crafted the act well with the other elements of movies. Such as, the music. Of course it's about a musician, you must make the great play-list in the movie-sequence. So do the make- up-artist and the setting-maker, great work for them. At least, you can really feel the atmosphere of Vienna in that century by watching it. At last, the scenario is just a breakthrough of the biopic- movie. In my opinion, the historical correct is the best way to define each person. Yes, I know some of the part is incorrect, but the personality of each role is nearly perfect. A history-adviser accompanied Forman to make this movie. Of course, Forman can't follow all the historical-advice, he is more concerns with the entertaining way to provide that history. And he did it awesomely. It's very complex, but the world admitted the achievement of Forman.

From the technical, let's jump to the value and idea. I just love the fresh value and idea. The idea, is just like another great film, really unique yet brilliant. Story-telling-movie from the man who is jealous with Mozart. Yes, the hater of Mozart, in front of clergyman. A smart way to define someone. More than that, I just can see the talent of a Mozart, very real-visualized. But, humanity is met the struggle of the world, you know like foods, money, and fame. Even the genius man can reach all of that when he ignore the basic lesson of how to live in his era. People just admire, and it's not the guarantee that you will be helped by them. Unfortunately, Mozart didn't master it. He is genius in one way, but idiot in another way. "Amadeus" brought all that value in a very emotional way. It's 3 hours though, but you won't regret it. There are always reasons why someone make this movie this long.

So, that's all I need to say. I give nine out of ten for all those aspects and value. Let's add another deep message and I'll give it ten. But, after all, "Amadeus" is splendid. 