Hearing about the movie, as relates to 'wrath of the titans', I decided to see this, and I'm glad I did. I went into it , expecting what I got; pure adrenaline and entertainment. If you go into it looking for precise mythological representation, you may be disappointed, but then aren't most people disappointed when they see a movie after reading the book, - and given the small time period for a movie, why are you ? ;) I knew this going in, I sat there looking for entertainment, as most of us do when we goto the movies, and was most certainly not disappointed. The acting seemed a tad stiff in places as if a given actor was trying to find a reason to be excited about their role, but that's a very small nit, as overall the acting is wonderful, by a stellar cast.

The plot is as you would expect from such a movie, as it does not delve too far into the mythos, yet gives you enough information, along with stunning visuals , to be clearly entertained for the entire 1.5 hours. The Greek mythos adage about gods not feeling loved enough is clear, is simple in its comprehension yet is great content for a action experience. I never felt like I wanted to leave the room, nor did anyone else. I remembered the original quite well, and while in some ways it was better than this remake, what's clear is the attempt to yet again, entertain and in that it achieved that quite well.

I do think the snarky comment about the poor metal owl, though honestly semi humorous, was I thought a bit misplaced and in a way slightly ruined the energy the movie had going up to that point. It's not even close to a deal breaker, but having seen the 1981 original at least twice, felt like the owl omission was unfortunate, but I do understand that they were concentrating on other plot points and do not fault them for that per se. The owl, for me at least, gave the movie a distinct feeling of empathy, as I, like I imagine many others, were rooting for the owl, as the stalwart companion. We all love our animal companions after all, which brings us further into a position of empathy as movie goers, yet no matter, as they more than make up for it in other respects.

I recommend seeing this if you liked the original, are okay with something unique regarding plot twists, and love special effects as they lend a hand to magical mythological portrayals. 