"The Matrix, Revolutions" was not on the level with the original, this much is true. However, it was undoubtedly a large step in the right direction.

To start with the most praise-worthy aspect of "Revolutions", being that of visuals. From a visual standpoint this movie was amazing, the CGI was unrivaled by anything that had ever come before it. The final battle between Smith and Neo easily places itself somewhere in my three favorite cinematic sequences of all time. And the battle between the machines and humans in Zion is also jaw-dropping. From a purely visual standpoint this movie is simply the best of three (which is boasting a lot since the free-way chase in the sub par "Reloaded" was quite the sight itself). The CGI is probably the best in any movie ever made, a notch above "Reloaded", which at times felt as though it were a video game, and worlds ahead of any of the recent Star War's movies.

Another improvement that was made upon the previous installments of the series was the music. Gone are cheesy techno theme's and watered-down POD lyrics. Instead we get to feast upon more gospel and, dare I say, epic themed musical backgrounds. Epic, as it would turn out, is the word that could best describe the feel of this final Matrix chapter, the entire time you feel as though you are engaged in something epic and important.

The acting is right back where it should have been in the second one, as all characters are portrayed better by their respective actors/actresses. Fishburne provides us with probably his strongest performance of the three, he is in a the role of a more emotional Morpheus then we have seen before. And it certainly turns out to be a role that he seems comfortable in. Reeves and Moss also both seem to be right back in their acting grooves (this is of course assuming Keanu ever had one). Also, Agent Smith definitely is the strongest character in this movie, the acting is right-on and the character is developed to completely new heights as true sadistic colors come out completely for the viewer to enjoy.

The only complaints that can be made are about the over done philisophical conversations and the movie's open ended conclusion. "Revolutions" at times feels as though it is trying too hard to be intellectual. Impending death does not need to make everybody do their best Plato impersonations. And in the end you may feel as though the movie has left you as clueless as when the series first began... Then again, you may also feel as though you have figured it all out. But irregardless the future of The Matrix is left up in the air.

In the end, "Revolutions" will be hated by some people and loved by others, there will be no gray here. It is hard not to measure it up to the first Matrix, which leaves it looking slightly wanting. However, it turns out to be thousands of times better then "Reloaded" (which I feel was a solid flick itself!) And one thing that the open ended conclusion does do for me, is fill me with hope that the journey down the rabbit hole is not yet over. 