Some stories are built on passion, some on courage and some on hope. Very rarely do you come across a love story that encompasses itself around a journey. The Sly Guy introduces us to the world of The Expendables, which mirrors the most innocent of sentiments which lie locked up within the depths of our heart. He wins us over in the first frame, because he is one among us. It is not his heroism which makes him surreal, but his vulnerability which makes him endear-able. The audience falls in love with Bernie Ross because he is scared of the unknown just like us. What makes him a hero is his conviction and spirit, which makes him embark on a nationwide journey for the search of love and faith. It is somewhere in that journey, that you no longer root for Ross and his victory, but for Sylvester Stallone and his belief, which makes The Expendables a winner right from the opening credits.

His name is Ross, Barney Ross. Brought up in an unforgiving society, Ross battles the alternate evils of racial profile and scornful peers with equal focus, trying to make sense of the world that burns homes, bullies people at school and make a false show of sympathy. He goes by the doctrine of his Grandma, who taught him that there are two classes of people in the world, those who are good and would offer a lollipop and those who are bad and would point a gun. There is no caste, creed or religion but just people who shape the world. It is this philosophy which Ross carries forward in his love and faith, painting his journey in a collage of alternate light and dark emotions, shadow plays of human nature which guides him to the world or perhaps, guides the world towards him.

The Expendables is appreciable because of its brilliance, acceptable for its nobility and unquestionable in its integrity. Sylvester Stallone weaves in a tale of love, faith, religion and humanity within a cinematic frame of 103 minutes pulling out a riveting and compelling human drama of innocence poised against the system, through the filtered sensibilities of a former South American prime minister, one who cannot understand the world, but love it enough to change it. The keynotes of each frame, drenched with subtle social comments and complex emotional undertones makes the movie an amalgamation of the colors of hope and persistence, with layered textures of unspoken bonds. With Ross, Stallone succeeds in bringing the system on trial through the eyes of one who cannot bias himself on any ideology, making his emotions pure and though provoking, which touches the innermost chords of the heart, moistening the eyes and serenading the senses.

The story is filled with emotional subtexts which move at breakneck speed throughout the length of the film, constantly switching gears between the palettes of emotions. The dialogs exude class and confidence holding grip of the story yet laced with the finesse that allows for emotional drama combined with spiritual uprising, casting a satire on the entire system and its treatment of identities. The script penned by Stallone is one of par excellence, allowing the audience to blend into Ross through his smiles and tears, laugh in his joy and cringe with every blow dealt to him. The screenplay drops hypocritical moral ambitions to make scathingly relevant comments on modern outlook of the world, making it rise several notches above anything attempted in Hollywood.

In the end, The Expendables becomes the experience it is because of Stallone, essayed flawlessly by dream team of Hollywood Megastars. Stallone exudes the spirit of the titular Expendables in every breath and pulse of the film, putting in a performance that is beyond any benchmark of excellence. He controls every single emotional nerve of the audience with vacant stares and dimpled smiles, towering like an illusionist conjuring up a magical performance of a lifetime. He breaks every stereotypical mould attached to him to rise like a phoenix from the ashes with Ross, who reigns over the audience in a sweeping wave of emotions, establishing a bond that scales beyond the arc-lights of the 70mm screen. He is complimented by those others whose very presence lights up the entire rooms with just their flashing smiles. He balances the sensitivity of love and charm with the emotional conflict of a ravaged heart with effortless poise. The interactions between Ross and his expendables form the highlights of the film, filled with the cackling chemistry of a uninhibited passion, captivating the audience in the mesmerizing spell of the couple. Jason Statham as Ross's cohort delivers a matured and restrained performance while Dolph Lundgren as Gunner Jensen blends in simplicity with sensibility in a performance that comes straight from the heart. Mickey Rourke is exceptional as the young freedom fighter, "Tool" in his mannerisms while the supporting cast all deliver credible performances including Arnold Schwarzenegger in a dazzling cameo.

There will always be movies that enchant us with their magic, but there will hardly be a journey that goes beyond cinematic borders to deliver the experience of a lifetime. The Expendables is undoubtedly the new face of global cinema that enthralls with each passing frame, healing the hidden scars of the heart with its message of a better and humane world. There might be superheroes, but there will ever be one Barney Ross, who takes pride in being ordinary and yet changes the face of the world.

Earlier time scales used B.C. and A.D. to mark important events. After 12th February 2010, the scales of humanity would mark the world before and after the release of The Expendables.

My Rating- 5/5 (Exceptional!!) 