Before seeing this movie, I'd heard of Les Miserables, but never knew what it was about. Wow! Very interesting story. It's sad, but with a title like Les Miserables, I don't know how one can expect anything else.

Now, I have to share my opinion regarding the choices for the production of this movie. I could rant on and on about how a city full of French people sound like their English because an English accent is apparently the default accent for anyone who isn't American. Sure, that's annoying, but I had bigger concerns.

I felt that this movie had some serious casting issues. Les Miserables is supposed to be an opera. The people who were cast in this movie are NOT opera singers and didn't show in any way that they were capable of singing in an opera. That isn't to say that the actors and actresses can't sing. I know some of them can, like Anne Hathaway and Hugh Jackman. But they don't have the voices needed to pull this type of singing off.

After watching this, I decided that I had to see a live production. A few months later, I got my chance. I was blown away by the talent on the stage. But this talent just further emphasized the shortcomings of the actors in the movie. They would have been fine if they were just acting in a regular movie, but they weren't. At times, it was if they were acting while they were singing, such as in "I Dreamed a Dream." It isn't exactly pleasing to the ears when I had to hear Hathaway cry while she sang. I couldn't even understand all of the words at first. Points to her for good acting, though.

The only members of the main cast who sounded as if they had the chops to do this the way it's supposed to be done were Samantha Barks and Aaron Tveit. I know Barks played Eponine in the 2010 version of Les Miz. She was phenomenal then and phenomenal in this. The guard at the barricades who spoke to the rebels after Gavroche died also sounded as if he was supposed to be in this movie. Excluding Colm Wilkinson as the bishop (he was the original Valjean on Broadway), the other cast members seemed as if they should have been replaced with lesser- known actors who actually have the range to do this kind of singing.

Anyways, I had to get that off my chest. I only gave this movie a 6 because I liked the story, and I've read about how hard the actors worked on it. I'll always appreciate that it opened my eyes to the world of Les Miz, but I've preferred basically every other version of Les Miz's songs over the ones in the movie. 