 Considering the 2017 Academy Awards are coming up very soon, February 26th to be exact, I thought it was the perfect time to recap exactly why Les Miserables won three of the eight Academy Awards it was nominated for in 2013. Winning Best Supporting Actress, Best Sound Mixing, and Best Makeup all hold true when considering this films major strengths. Looking at the amount of singing, how the actors fit their roles, and the overall flow throughout the film are what make this production great. There is no doubt in saying that this film is musically-driven. I was a bit taken aback with the first scene when Russell Crowe, playing Javert, started lecturing Hugh Jackman, taking the role of a slave named Jean Valjean. To my surprise, every word was sung, right from the start! Even though I knew this film was based on a musical, I did not expect the singing to begin so early on, let alone be the very first words said by the actors. The idea that every word is going to be sung is startling at first, yet catchy and becomes expected after a while. In a way I enjoyed that the characters only sang their verses, because when a scene involving a violent reaction where you would expect a lot of yelling came up, their soft tones gave way to calm voices. This is where the excellent use of background music would pick up and add to the suspense or tension of the situation, hence the award for Best Sound Mixing. Once you do get used to the fact that the majority of what you will hear are the exceptionally graceful voices of the actors, the film flows quite nicely, showing exactly why Les Miserables is a great musical production. Speaking of the actors, they made this film ten times more enjoyable to watch due to their impressive performances. Anne Hathaway went beyond what I was expecting for the short, yet extremely important, time she was in the spotlight. Her emotions and body language shown were alarmingly believable. Especially in the most degrading scene where her humanity was violently stripped from her, Anne Hathaway's image was so convincing without her having to say a word. Another lead actor, Hugh Jackman, brought an act that was so natural and modest I was simply satisfied when he was performing. His ability to relate to the other actors on an emotional level, especially when deciding to take in Fantine's child after she passed, was very believable and sincere. The way that all the characters connect and come together in the end really solidifies any wandering thoughts or questions that may arise during the film. The way these actors present themselves in their individual roles and also together as a cast, makes this film flow so easily. Along with the connectedness of the characters, the way the producer continuously brings items and actors back into later scenes shows the importance of certain aspects throughout the film. For instance, the two silver candles that give Hugh Jackman his character early on in the film reappear multiple times, like a sort of motif. Along with this subtle addition in the film, the way each song moves into and out of the next so fluently adds to the overall neat and easy to follow story line. Over the course of many years, the actors also reappear with just enough of a changed appearance that it is hard to notice until they sing. Les Miserables achieves a great sense of flow by incorporating these qualities that give the film its greatness. Overall, Les Miserables is remarkably deserving of the Academy Awards it received in 2013. The film proved to be outstanding due to the musical talent, exceptional actors who played their roles perfectly, and the way the film created a sense of flow. 