One of my friends suggested me this movie. I wasn't aware of the plot beforehand. Neither I knew about the person on whom this movie was based. Which fortunately turned this to an even more intriguing for me. Maybe that is why my first recommendation would be do not research anything beforehand in order to avoid despoiling the surprises of this movie. These types of movies expect nil information about the plot on the viewers part. That is how they will successfully bind you.

A beautiful mind is an American biographical drama film based on the life of John Nash, a Nobel Laureate in Economics. In this movie, John Nash was suffering from a disease schizophrenia. Now the question arrives, What the hell is Schizophrenia? Imagine if you suddenly learned that the people, the places, the moments most important to you were not gone, not dead, but worse, had never been. What kind of hell would that be? This movie is the answer. It shows, How John Nash proves that psychiatrists were wrong about schizophrenia being a brain disease like Alzheimers and Parkinson's. How he refuses to hospitalize himself and courageously decides to tackle with the imaginary people inside his mind. This is the plot on which this movie is based.

According to me, what makes this movie different from others is it's extraordinary attention to the details. There is nothing mentioned in the movie which could come in conflict with your common reasoning. There are no violation of nature's law, no preternatural intelligence, no ostentatious scenes which could be refuted by my reasoning skills. For example, When Parcher implanted IC inside Nash's hand which he used while unlocking the doors (by scanning his hand on the scanner). In the next scenes where movie reveals Parcher was a fictional character because of Nash's disease. I was in between devils and the deep as my mind was continuously asking why the hell he was not checking his hand for the IC? That would be the biggest proof whether the characters are imaginary or real. Guess what? Within few moments I see Nash scratching his hand for the IC. which made both of us believe that he was suffering from the disease. Again, when Parcher meets Nash and tries to maintain his credibility of his real existence. He said the IC which was implanted vanished because it was made of Radium which decayed completely. I was enthralled by this scene and for the second time along with Nash, I believed Parcher is no more a fictional character.

I think, the rationality of this movie is what makes it so great. While watching this movie, I placed myself at Nash's situation, and was trying to figure out how I would deal. Believe me, the things which I thought I would do to solve these conflict, the same solutions Nash used in the movie. The only thing which I think only Nash could do was the finesse with which he dealt with such characters.

Furthermore, the way this movie tries to explain things with rationality which themselves are irrational is simply beyond one's approach. Quoting one scene from the movie.

When John Nash Proposes Alicia.

Nash: Alicia, does our relationship warrant long-term commitment? I need some kind of proof, some kind of verifiable, empirical data.

Alicia: I'm sorry, just give me a moment to redefine my girlish notions of romance.

Alicia: How big is the universe?

Nash: Infinite.

Alicia: How do you know?

Nash: I know because all the data indicates it's infinite.

Alicia: But it hasn't been proved yet.

Nash: No.

Alicia: You haven't seen it.

Nash: No.

Alicia: How do you know for sure?

Nash: I don't, I just believe it.

Alicia: It's the same with love I guess.

There are still a lot more to say about this movie which I found highly admirable. Things which can only be observed and that's why you should watch this movie. 