Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999) is very underrated pure fun action prequel to the prequel Star Wars trilogy. I think this movie is very hated and very bashed from critics and fans. In my opinion I love it, I think it is miles way better flick than The Force Awakens! The Phantom Menace didn't kill Han Solo (in such a awful way) or rip off A New Hope beat. The Phantom Menace has a cooler villain in Darth Maul (and a cooler weapon. And at LEAST Phantom Menace has some new music that was worth Duel of the Fates. Like I said I love Liam Neeson as Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and Ewan McGregor as his apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi in this flick. I think the actors did a wonderful job, the way George Lucas imagine to do it. I love Queen Amidala/Padme with all that make up and the costume that was created for her. Natalie Portman did an excellent job portraying her character, she is very sexy talented and extremely gorgeous in here. I remember in 1999 when they were talking about filming this film, I still have news papers clips saved in my drawer when they where filming this film. Honestly I love The Phantom Menace more than Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith.

Plot: Two Jedi Knights escape a hostile blockade to find allies and come across a young boy who may bring balance to the Force, but the long dormant Sith resurface to reclaim their old glory.

This film has two cool villains: Darth Maul and Darth Sidious, a Sith Lord. This film has a incredible race when we meet Anakin Skywalker as a child, before he become Vader. I have enjoyed watching the race when Anakin was racing against several obstacles including rival racer Sebulba to win the race. Personally I think Jake Lloyd did a perfect job playing Anakin Skywalker. We even have Samuel L. Jackson in this film before he was Nick Fury in MARVEK's Avengers.

The flashy special effects and the climactic lightsaber fight at the end Darth Maul with cool long saber was awesome villain and his red double-bladed lightsaber was fantastic created. The final epic fight when Qui-Gon and Obi Wan engage Darth Maul on Naboo was a climatic fight that I loved it, Qui-Gon was injured from Darth Maul, but Obi Wan cut him in a half and defeat him on the end, I like that. I didn't see anything bad about that.

Ewan McGregor as young apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi did an outstanding job and had fun portraying his character, I found him very amazing without a beard and been a good apprentice to his Jedi master Qui-Gon.

Liam Neeson as Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn did a wonderful job portraying the character I am a fan of Liam Neeson, he even had a small role in Batman Begins and you know the man can act. Personally I more cared about Liam Neeson's character Qui-Gon Jinn and the first climactic lightsaber fight with Darth Maul who later we found out, that he know the Jedi skills.

John Williams was to be one person putting honest effort into the prequels, it was definitely him and his music. The soundtrack to this movie is my favorite of all of the series.

There are a few problems that film suffers:

The problem with Episode I is that the film sometimes becomes boring. The plot starts off with a tax dispute. I found that very unlike the nature of Star Wars, but I am still willing to give it a chance. For a while, things were kinda looking up. But once the characters land on Tatooine, I lose all interest. The podracing scene goes on for way too long.

I found all the characters to be dull and monotonous. The subplot where Anakin also being the creator of C-3P0 adds absolutely nothing to the story whatsoever, other than making it more contrived and confusing.

Jar Jar Binks honestly was pretty dull stupid character, he annoyed me trough the half of the film, with his silliness and his annoying tongue, I really had that problem with the character watching him on screen. The only thing I liked about him was the end when he lead the battle against the army of droids.

The army of droids were annoying with lines: "roger, roger" I hated that so much and I hated them.

I hated the Gungan resistance I hated them the same as I did Jar Jar Binks, I hate the characters.

The film is too over long at 2 hrs and 16 Mins. is too over long for me, not even the Original Star Wars film wasn't that long.

I am giving an 8 out of 10 mainly for been so bashed and been hated.

Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace is a 1999 American epic space opera film written and directed by George Lucas, produced by Lucasfilm and distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the first installment in the Star Wars prequel trilogy and stars Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, Jake Lloyd, Ian McDiarmid, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, Pernilla August and Frank Oz.

8/10 Grade: A- Studio: 20th Century Fox, Lucasfilm Ltd. Starring: Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, Jake Lloyd, Ian McDiarmid, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, Pernilla August, Frank Oz Director: George Lucas Producer: Rick McCallum Screenplay: George Lucas Rated: PG Running Time: 2 Hr. 16 Mins. Budget: $115.000.000 Box Office: $1,027,044,677 